"Spiritually and mentally inspiring ! A book that allows you to question your morals and will help you discover who you really are ! ",4
"This is one my must have books . It is a masterpiece of spirituality . I 'll be the first to admit its literary quality is n't much . It is rather simplistically written but the message behind it is so powerful that you have to read it . It will take you to enlightenment . ",4
"This book provides a reflection that you can apply to your own life.And a way for you to try and assess whether you are truly doing the right thing and making the most of your short time on this plane . ",4
"I first read THE PROPHET in college back in the 60 's . The book had a revival as did anything metaphysical in the turbulent 60 's . It had a profound effect on me and became a book I always took with me . After graduation I joined the Peace Corps and during stressful training in country Liberia at times of illness and the night before I left this book gave me great comfort . I read it before I married just before and again after my children were born and again after two near fatal illnesses . I am always amazed that there is a chapter that reaches out to you grabs you and offers both comfort and hope for the future.Gibran offers timeless insights and love with each word . I think that we as a nation should read AND learn the lessons here . It is definitely a time for thought and reflection this book could guide us through . ",4
"A timeless classic . It is a very demanding and assuming title but Gibran backs it up with some excellent style and content . If he had the means to publish it a century or two earlier he could have inspired a new religion.From the mouth of an old man about to sail away to a far away destination we hear the wisdom of life and all important aspects of it . It is a messege . A guide book . A Sufi sermon . Much is put in perspective without any hint of a dogma . There is much that hints at his birth place Lebanon where many of the old prophets walked the Earth and where this book project first germinated most likely.Probably becuase it was written in English originally the writing flows it is pleasant to read and the charcoal drawings of the author decorating the pages is a plus . I loved the cover . ",4
"Reading this made my mind feel like a still pool of water cool and quiet in a mossy grotto . It 's direct and simple wisdom has a depth of complexity that takes a quiet day to sink in leaving you at peace . It is best to set time aside for it relax absorb and let it softly clear your mind . ",4
"As you read Gibran 's poetry brings spiritual and visual beauty to life within you . Gibran is justly famous for rich metaphors that brilliantly highlight the pursuit of Truth and Goodness amidst all the darkness and light of human nature . ",4
"Deep moving dramatic verses of the heart and soul.Truths of ancient wisdom from a true and romantic poet.Relevant for all eternity . ",4
"This is a timeless classic . Over the years I 've given it as a gift more times than I can count and will continue to do so . Addresses real life issues in a beautiful way and makes us reexamine our own attitude about how we see what happens in our lives . So easy to read over and over . ",4
"An amazing work . Realizing extensive use of Biblical imagery and sentence structure The Prophet by Khalil Gibran is a literary classic . Influencing the Free Love movement of the 1960 's Gibran 's master work explores themes of love longing and loss . ",4
"I LOVE this book his writing seems to just flow from page to page . I get something different from this book each time I read it.. ",4
"This book has been a classic for many years . It has so much wisdom in it that it can be read numerous times and new things will come out each time . My favorite chapter is the one on children . ",4
"This book has so much you can take out of it to use in your real life . Amazing and one of my favorite reads of all time . ",4
"When I was in college in the 70 's this book had a revival and I did not read it then . Recently a friend who is 90 and I were talking about work and she said work is love made visible and told me it was from the Prophet . I though that was so beautiful I got the book and was not disappointed.You see if you have ideas and you do not realize them then they are nothing and if your ideas do not come from love and joy then they are bitter and what they produce will be bitter but if they flow from love and joy then their realization will be love and joy thus work is love made visible.He says it WAY better that I do and says much more in just a few paragraphs . But as you can see from the example what he says is not religious but positive ways of looking at things . Since I rediscoverd the book I have given away many copies and everyone I have given it to sincerly thanked me . ",4
"I discovered The Prophet fifty years ago in college and have read it dozens of times since then . Now in addition to my beat up hard copy I have a portable ecopy . If you were looking for an example of an intelligently designed pun intended book of spiritual guidance this would be it . It does n't care how you picture name or define God or whether you give him a gender and a personality . It just cuts to the heart of how to live and how to relate to others . If Jesus and the Buddha teamed up to write a book it might come out like this.When I first read it I found some passages difficult to grasp . Looking back I now think that it was not because they were hard to understand but because I did not want to hear gently spoken intelligently phrased ideas that contradicted my own . Now if I could have only one book this would probably be it . ",4
"Ca n't say enough about Kahlil Gibran 's work among this piece . Everybody in the whole world should read this ! There is almost too much to take in really appreciate and put towards our daily lives . In my opinion it is just one of the most beautiful literature pieces ever written . Would recommend to as a gift for anyone spiritualpoeticphilosophyeducational piece or just something to enjoy here and there . 5 stars for sure ! ",4
"I have the 1972 version bought in 1974 . The 1972 version originally had a dust jacket but my dust jacket is long gone . This particular rendition has had many reprintings for a reason it 's very popular . The textured paper oldstyle typography and leather cover are better than a plainold paperback . The size is diminutive which is perfect for this book . ",4
"Anything I 've read by Gibran is in my mind flawless . This the most famous of his works is no exception . It is simple yet deep honest and profound moving and inspirational . Gibran 's work is one of a kind and can be far more encouraging and moving than any selfhelp program or therapy or anything like that . The poetic style the aphorisms the parables the almost biblical feel are all just what overworked overstressed modern and spiritually starved worldly people need . ",4
"Cool book I really like the quality of the production . Black clothbound with gold embossing and nice paper looks to be cotton rag . I am proud to include it in my collection . Intrigueing story full of the sort of passion that does not cloud the mind or divert truth but instead is revealing and living . Very readable the stories are short and highly economic so that one is likely to read for only a minute or two until something insightful is revealed . It is full of timeless truths which are of lasting value to the reader and inform life . The language and delivery is familiar yet of a quality that is penetrating in a similar way as it might be listening to a surmon by Jesus . I give it 5 stars . I considered giving only 4 stars because the format is fairly predictable but I have decided that this quality is actually a strength as one can pick up the book at any point and continue until the endand then start over for that matter . Excellent for busy people or commuters ! ",4
"This book is everything that is simple delicate true and beautiful.I have read few books so touching and enlightening The Prophet is a true masterpiece that has that feeling of ancient wisdom in it . The wisdom of the text is gentle yet insistent it lets you understand things you 've always known.My feelings defy description . ",4
"For those who do n't know Gibran get to know his work . The Prophet is a must read . His outlook on life is truly an inspiring guide on how to approach major life decisions . This is a relationship with a man 's work you wo n't regret having . ",4
"I would have to say that this is the best book I 've ever read.. I could feel every word deep in my heart everytime of the many times I 've read it ! I would never get enough of it ! its a treasure.. ",4
"Its a thin book very readable and has interesting 12 page thoughts on various entities like anger children religion speech silence and its COOLreading . Ofcourse if one needs to imbibe the thoughts of the author it has to be consumed slowly and perhaps revisited but leaves you pretty heady and clear about certain things . ",2
"I read this about a year ago and ca n't recall a great deal of the book . From what I do recall it was like a poem all the way through . While the writing was beautiful I found it ambiguous and befuddled with meaning that I could not identify with . When Gibran speaks of God I can not identify because I have since abandoned those philosophies . It is thus difficult to revisit them in this book . I have the feeling a may have missed something great about this book . Indeed I pulled wisdom from parts but rather than go back and read it again for now perhaps I will move on to another of the many books out there that are enlightening and worth reading . Someday I would like to read this again and dig deeper . ",1
"Loved this book since first I read it years gone by . Purchased this copy for a friend who has not ever read Gibran . ",4
"I first read The Prophet by Kahlil Gibran over 30 years ago and have read it many times since . Gibran 's messages are timeless and have always influenced my life and relationships . Over the years I have used it as a gift for persons I cared about . This paperback version has a lovely cover and makes a nice yet inexpensive gift containing valuable lessons for anyone . I purchased three for future giving at the special price offered . ",4
"It 's a thin book which has deep thoughts about topics like love generosity death prayer etc . It can be read again and again because it is thin while at the sametime it contains so many words of wisdon . ",4
"Who can ever say anything negative about this great philosopher poet artist ? Read enjoy and apply to your own life . ",4
"Excellent BookFull of wisdom . Even though the book was n't preachey there were a lot of references made to the bible made . ",4
"I bought this book to supplement a recording I treasure in my collection.. The Prophet is truly inspirational and poetically illustrates the many challenges and journeys the human spirit traverses from birth to death . The utterings are omni religious and subtly explain the basic principles of the human lifespan from an authoritative and spiritual perspective . A must have for any deep or notsodeep thinker . ",4
"This is a fantastic book and I would definitely recommend it to everyone . Quick read but also very insightful . It really makes you think . ",4
"I only wish I could read the original text . The simplicity and frankness the blend of respect for the individual and appreciation of spiritualitythis is the most astonishing work I have ever read . ",4
"One of the most profound books I have ever read . You can learn alot about love life and relationships after reading this book . Very insightful . ",4
"Maybe some of the folks in his homeland considered him a prophet but I see him as an other person with some ideas but not too many truths . That being said I like many of his ideas and concepts . If you like spiritual gurus like Eckhardt Tolle you 'll probably like Kahlil Gibran . ",2
"This is one of the first literary books I recall reading . My mother kept a collection of Gibran 's works that she often read . I was curious to see what attracted her so I looked into them too I was either eight or nine at the time . I believe that was my first taste of spirituality and seemed at the time more relevant than what I was being forcefed by nuns in catechism class . Rereading Gibran now I 'm struck by the notion that Hesse must have been aware of these texts before he wrote Siddhartha . They contain many of the same themes No one else can guide you on your path . You must select your own course . Preachers and prophets are a dime a dozen . True wisdom comes from within.The prophet 's teaching on love is particularly relevant to me at this stage of my lifeFor even as love crowns you so shall he crucify you . Even as he is for your growth so is he for your pruning . Even as he ascends to your height and caresses your tenderest branches that quiver in the sun So shall he descend to your roots and shake them in their clinging to the earth . Like sheaves of corn he gathers you unto himself . He threshes you to make you naked . He sifts you to free you from your husks . He grinds you to whiteness . He kneads you until you are pliant And then he assigns you to his sacred fire that you may become sacred bread for God 's sacred feast.Look into these books . They may appear simplistic to the jaundiced eye but they may also provide the inspiration you need to see you through life 's travails . ",4
"Kahlil is so amazing . To try to express his wisdom with my own words would be more like an insult . Just read the book and just let it soak in.Carl BozemanAuthor Amazon bestselling book On Being God Beyond Your Life 's PurposeAre You Listening ? Addressing the Divine Within & On Human Being Loving and Living Without Purpose ",4
"This is one of the best most inspiring philosophypoetry books ever written ! I have read it over and over though never tire of it . It is a great reminder for what 's most important in life and puts everything in perspective . My favorite 'chapters ' are Love Marriage Children and The first look . I am a romantic though so the other chapters may appeal to you more . Absolutely classic and timeless . Perfectly stands the test of time . My personal copy is from 1948 and is one of my favorite treasures . ",4
"This is Gibran 's most celebrated work and it is so with goodreason . It is a profound insight and expose into the human characterand the emotions that work within the heart and soul . Humble wordsseared with the heights and depths of love and of pain this is a lifechanging arrangement of words . If I had to sum the book up in one word it would be SUBLIME . If you 're picking up this title be sure to order Gibran 's 'The Beloved ' to go along with it . These are books that deserve a worthy and permanent place on your bookshelf . ",4
"Intrinsically this book utilizes a flowing a cleaver way to express the ideological interpretations of the author . While personally I found nothing profound in the ideologies expressed in the book I did find it simply a pleasure to read . Even with the lack of philosophical epiphany the style of the book in its fluid manner the parallel structure of the chapters and the brevity combined with the larger font in the piece leave the reader whether they agree with the philosophies therein or not in a state of solemn peace and the feeling that they have not wasted their time . As really they probably have not it really did not waste my time anyway it only took a little over an hour to read with breaks . ",4
"When I first started writing poetry at age 12 or 13 I was encouraged to read other poets . Something I refused to do because I thought it might influence My StyleOK so I was hard headed I later was introduced by a Brother In Law to Kahlil Gibran and it was like finding a kindred soul . I now totally encourage any one that want 's to excel in poetry to read the greats . And you wo n't find many of the caliber of this man ! ! ! His words sing from the page both in his poetry and in his short stories ! I love Martyr 's To Man It 's been a while but some of the words are still singed in my brain And I think it truly speaks of the time we are living in now more than ever From memory so not verbatimAre you a soldier ? Who must forsake wife and children ? And go fourth into the fields of battle ? For the sake of greedWhich your leaders miscall duty ? Than you are a martyr to man ! There 's more but the gist of what I am saying is if you love poetry and you have n't read any Kahlil Gibran you 're missing out on one of the greatest poets to ever live ! And if you write poetry I firmly believe Kahlil Gibran should be recquired reading ! ! ! Not that you will feel you have to plod your way through itYou too will fall in love with his immense gifts ! ! ! SincerelyAnd best wishes to allChase vonYour Chance to Hear The Last Panther Speak ",4
"Beautiful and peaceful read . I carry it in my purse and read it whenever I am waiting for the Doctor at the airport etc . ",4
"This book was great each chapter was a nugget of wisdom resulting in a treasure trove by the end . It 's no wonder this book is called a classic . Gibran uses a literary style inspired by the Bible but it is still easy to read . Has a lot of philosophical ideas that I 'm sure I will revisit in the future . Seems like one of those books that you learn something new every time you reread it . Definitely recommend especially for anyone new to philosophy reading because it is short and easy to read . ",4
"A decade past I knew very little about the writerartistpoetprophet Kahlil Gibran . I am happy to say that today I am well acquainted with his work . The Prophet was the first book I read written by Gibran and ever since that first reading I have immersed myself in his extraordinarily consummate skill of exquisitely crafted words . To say the Prophet or any other writings by Kahlil Gibran is simply fine literature is to say the mysterious of the soul are mediocre . I recommend that if you have not touched upon any of Kahlil Gibran 's books that you consider the Prophet as a good start . You will not be disappointed . A few other extraordinary works of art by Gibran The Voice Of The Master The Beloved Sand And Foam The Broken Wings Between Night And Morn The Earth Gods and one of my personal favorites though not so much a story but rather a collection of personal letters to dearly beloved friends Kahlil Gibran A SelfPortrait . ",4
"The Prophet is Kahlil Gibran 's best known work in the western world with over 25 million copies sold . It is said that Kahlil spent more than 20 years writing The Prophet and held onto the manuscript for 4 years before finally releasing it for publication . Kahlil referred to The Prophet as the strange little book or the little black book in reference to its cover . The working title of this strange little book was The Counsels the final version consisting of 26 ` verses'.In The Prophet the philosophy of East and West meet in a union unparalleled in the literature of the early 20th century . Kahlil acknowledged that he was inspired by a multitude of writers and that is evident throughout The Prophet . Most notably the visions of William Blake who Kahlil referred to as the poetprophet parexcellence incidentally one of Kahlil 's mentors the sculptor Rodin called Kahlil the 20th century Blake The Prophet was also heavily influenced by the Bible Buddhism Hinduism the English Romantics Ralph Waldo Emerson Walt Whitman Friedrich Nietzsche Ameen Rihani and Christian and Sufi mysticism.When The Prophet was first published the early 20th century critic Claude Bragdon wrote of its extraordinary dramatic power deep erudition lightninglike intuition lyrical lift and metrical mastery with which the message is presented and the beauty beauty beauty which permeates the entire pattern . Wow that 's a powerful critiqueand let 's listen to his close friend and one of his biographers Mary Haskell who wrote to Kahlil after she received a copy of The ProphetBeloved Kahlil The Prophet came today and it did more than realize my hopes . For it seemed in its compacted form to open yet further new doors of desire and imagination in me and to create about itself the universe in nimbusThis book will be held as one of the treasures of English literature . And in our darkness we will open it to find ourselves again and the heaven and earth within ourselves . Generations will not exhaust it but instead generation after generation will find in the book what they would fain be and it will be better loved as men grow riper and riper . It is the most loving book ever written.I can add little more than thatother than Haskell had a very good point . ",4
"Love this book . Every time I buy one I give it away . This one is for me . The book arrived on time and in good condition . ",4
"This book was great in the 60 's and it 's great still . It makes you feel peaceful inside.It lets you stop and contimplate what you read . Good source of tranquility . ",2
"Gibran Khalil Gibran was born in 1883 in what is now Northern Lebanon . In 1909 he went to Paris to study but he did not like the strict education and so he traveled eventually moving to New York . Gibran became both an artist and a writer and in 1923 he published The Prophet which is generally considered to be his greatest work . He died of cancer in a New York hospital at the very young age of 48.The Prophet is a story about Almustafa The Prophet who after living 12 years in Orphalese is about to depart aboard ship to return to his home . Before he goes a group of people stop him and to them he teaches the secrets of life . Gibran writes in a very poetic manner and it is wonderful to read . ",4
"Compared it to works like Tarantula by Bob Dylan . Purchased this time as a gift it was received with praise per its current cover ",4
"I did n't really know what to expect when I purchased this . I knew only that it was a wellregarded book and that it was said to be full of wisdom.What I found was a story that was easy to read . There are few words per page covering the sayings of a wise man as he speaks to those around him . There is a kind of poetry in the words but not the kind that is difficult to understand . The insights were both familiar and refreshing . It made me reconsider my notions of all aspects of life although it was less a spiritual revolution than a gentle awakening.I bought the hardcover . It is small and sits easily in one hand . The pages are made from a richfeeling textured paper that feels nice to the fingertips . And the text is printed in spacious and easy to read letters . Throughout the book are scattered drawings that Kahlil Gibran made . I like them . I feel they add to the experience of reading this book although I ca n't quite put my finger on the reason.While spiritual it does not as far as I could tell convey any beliefs specific to any religion or even assume a readily recognizable god . Gibran says the wind speaks not more sweetly to the giant oaks than to the least of all the blades of grass . pp 2728 The notion of god that emerges from these pages is of a pervasive connectedness or oneness with nature and the universe . ",4
"As the author of a spirituallythemed book entitled The Misadventures of Sister Mary Olga Fortitude I appreciate any book that opens the doors to spiritual understanding . There are few contemporary books that will do this for you in such a poetic way.This is a book containing eternal truths . It was given to me as a high school graduation present many years ago . At the time I found it beautiful but I could n't understand it . That is because I had n't experienced life.Selections from this book were read at my wedding . The sections on love speak of what it is truly about . Most of us never have an inkling of what true love is since we are caught up in a world of attachment to illusions and delusions . This book will help you to break through them.This is a classic that will stand the mark of time such as the Bible has done . Kahlil Gibran is an old soul who speaks in a language that can be embraced by people of any faith.The book is filled with metaphors and parables . It is almost as if Jesus himself is speaking through the author . Whether or not you will be able to comprehend what the author is speaking about The Prophet will plant seeds that can bear good fruit.Davis Aujourd'hui author of The Misadventures of Sister Mary Olga Fortitude ",4
"Eloquent and full of divine wisdom this little treatise packs more truth into 96 pages than you 're going to find anywhere else . I 'll continue to read passages each morning just to remind myself of the beauty and magic of life . ",4
"I have this entire series in the original but nothing is quite so good as this one . A wise master is leaving the city . As he departs the crowd shouts out for him to impart his knowledge . Teach us about love education power knowledge etc they cry . A simple plot for the organization of timeless wisdom . ",4
"I had this book before and lost it when I moved and I just love it touches my soul and gives me perspective on life . ",4
"When you are joyous look deep into your heart and you shall find it is only that which has given you sorrow is that giving you joy . When you are sorrowful look again in your heart and you shall see that in truth you are weeping for that which has been your delight . G. K. Gibran The ProphetThe ProphetGibran 's bestknown work The Prophet is a collection of poetic essays which became more popular with the rise of American New Age movement during the 1960s . Since its first publication in 1923 The Prophet has never been out of print . It was translated into more than twenty languages and became one of the twentieth century best selling books in the United States . The Prophet evoked the journey of the Promeathian exile he called Al Mustafa the Chosen One one of Islam 's prophet favorite adjectives . Gibran added to the work a separate work he had attached to the story of Al Mustafa . Gibran has later linked the roots of his poetic collection to a work he wrote as a teenager in Arabic.Quote from The Prophet SelfknowledgeYour hearts know in silence the secrets of the days and the nights.But your ears thirst for the sound of your heart 's knowledge.You would know in words that you have always known in thought.You would touch with your fingers the naked body of your dreams.And it is well that you should.The hidden wellspring of your soul must needs rise and run murmuring to the sea and the treasure of your infinite depths would be revealed to your eyes.But let there be no scales to weigh your unknown treasureAnd seek not the depths of your knowledge with staff or sounding line.For self is a sea boundless and measureless.G . Khalil Gibran 18831931I encountered Gibran as a young kid even before appreciating Arabic poetry . I was then amazed by the beauty of his art and the romance of his expression in 'The Prophet . ' I read him later in Arabic before I realized how the Lebanese emigrant poet has touched the Western hearts . Gibran 's collection of early stories parables and poetic prose were written in Arabic before his works were translated into English earning him the nickname 'the Shelly of the Orient . ' Many Arabic speaking intelligentsia including my dad thought he has qualified before Naguib Mahfouz was elected to have been the first Nobel Laureate Arabic writer ! Classic Book ReviewsIt is Gibran 's gift to us as well for Gibran 's prophet is rivaled in his wisdom only by the founders of the world 's great religions . his words have a power and lucidity that in another era would surely have provoked the description divinely inspired . Brian BruyaHis power came from some great reservoir of spiritual life else it could not have been so universal and so potent but the majesty and beauty of the language with which he clothed it were all his own . Claude BragdonPROPHET LIFE AND TIMES OF KAHLIL GIBRAN ",4
"Okay I know that Gibhran is supposed to be corny and cliched and assosciated with the hippy movement of the 60's.It does not mean that he also is n't still relevant to anyone seeking answers to what life is about . The set up is simple as a prophet takes his leave of the people with whom he has stayed for many years he is asked a series of questions tell us of friendship of love of work of death . And to each question the prophet provides an answer.For me the message that the prophet provides is that life is not easy and that the greatest joys can only be achieved by risking and enduring great sorrow.But that is only what I took from Gibran and his prophet . Read and take your own message from his words . ",4
"I received my first copy of this book over 40 years ago . As a young woman I found understanding in topics that concerned me as I aged my life experiences broadened and this book still gave me understanding and confirmation.I have given this gift to many and they too enjoy the book and keep it as a reference.This is a book that keeps on giving what you need as your life experiences or interests change . ",4
"The prophet by Kahlil Gibran is a very beautiful inspiring writing which really resonated within me it felt as truth . I feel that with good patience and deep contemplation this book can lead you to a profound understanding of your own life and all others around you.I first read about Kahlil Gibran in a book calledThe Lost Teachings of Atlantis . That book answered all my spiritual questions about the meaning of Life who and what we are and more in a very easily understandable manner and all of it corresponds with the writing of Kahlil Gibran . I HIGHLY recommend reading that book also . ",4
"_The Prophet_ is a short read my copy checks in at just under 100 pages but its berevity belies both the power and beauty of Gibran 's words . At its simplest it is a discourse on the human condition love work joy and sorrow crime and punishment reason and passion Gibran runs the gamut of emotion and being laying bare the paradox of who we are as human beings . While the tone is somewhat mystical which I did n't really care for the sheer poetic beauty of his writing moved me.For example in the chapter Love Gibran writes When love beckons to you follow him Though his ways are hard and steep And when his wings enfold you yield to him Though the sword hidden among his pinions may wound you . And when he speaks to you believe in him For even as love crowns you so shall he crucify you . Even as he is for you growth so is he for your pruning . The contrast vivid metaphor and beautiful images were stunning and left me with much to think and reflect on about my own life and the choices I 've made . It would be going too far to say that as a result of reading The Prophet I 've had an epiphany or to take it to a ridiculous conclusion some sort of a conversion . Rather it has caused me to consider on a philosophical level what it is to be human means to me and how I have demonstrated my humanness in my life.Part poetry part philosophy it is simultaneously thoughtprovoking and emotional . Undeniably readers will have a visceral reaction although apparently given the reviews of some not all reactions are positive . Highly recommended if only to cause one to examine their own life . After all the unexamined life is not worth living . ",4
"The Prophet is about a mysterious religious thinker who is about to leave for his native land . Before he goes many people have just one question to ask him . In a very few words he tells them his accumulated wisdom primarily in a nondenominational way . The only exceptions come in the references to rebirth . The essence of each brief lesson is that we have to step outside of our own perspective to see things in the way that God does and wants us to.Let me give you an example . When someone transgresses either man 's laws or God 's laws we tend to condemn the person harshly and focus on punishment . This is like treating the person as though they have fallen below some level of what it is still to be human . Yet no one does anything worse than what some person has done wrong before and will do wrong again.Surely our reaction should still focus like a Mother 's on the fundamental humanness of the person and our desire to have the person be a contributing loving and helpful part of our community.Another way to think about the lessons of The Prophet is to notice that nature loves a balance . If we interfere with nature nature overreacts in some new way that counters our interference . This happens when we put too much phosphate into lakes . Algae blooms expand exponentially to eat the phosphate . These lessons help us to see the balance that is missing in our initial reaction.A good parallel can be found in the study of the brain . Our initial reactions when frightened or threatened are focused in the oldest parts of the brain . This part of the brain triggers strong chemicals to be released that engage us in fight or flight reactions that can save our lives in the nearterm . In the civilized world we often have these reactions just to stress . Gibran is helping us move to our highest level of consciousness by choosing our reactions and selecting reactions that integrate all parts of our brains plus our near and longterm best interests as individuals and as a community.Many Eastern religions encourage one to become free of the conscious mind and that sense of objectivity is captured nicely here . I have a feeling much like when meditating while I read The Prophet because of its calming influence on my overreactive senses.I also think of this perspective like being on the Moon and observing the circumstances on Earth through a telescope . With such extreme distance should come detachment from the ego to permit good thinking.But none of these perspectives are directly suggested or alluded to . The moral lessons are simply there with the briefest possible examples to make them clear . As such they are masterpieces of good thinking moral ethics and fine communication.The answers are so brief and so profound that you will want to discuss them . I suggest you select another member of your family or a group of people from your house of worship . The lessons are best explored by discussing tangible situations that you face every day . Certainly it is desirable and appropriate to consider the direct teachings of your religious heritage and beliefs in this connection.Whenever you feel overwhelmed turn to the page in The Prophet that addresses your issue . Like taking a warm bath you will be soothed by the love for humanity in the answers Gibran provides.Before you speak ask yourself who is about to speak for you and what do they want . ",4
"Khalil Gibran 's book The Prophet has the power to transform the darkest feeling of pain in your heart into great release . What a blessing that it exists . Each passage touches on a deep and universal topic marriage friendship etc . The words spoken profoundly and clearly from the mouth of the mystic and insightful prophet who has nothing but words of wisdom to impart to those who gather around him is a truly life affirming and transformative experience . Please read this today . It will give you insight on the sacred aspects of all life choices and experiences that exist in the world . ",4
"Jubran Kahlil Jubran had a teacher make a mistake on his name and wrote down 'Kahlil Gibran ' as when he arrived here from Lebanon which was still part of the Ottoman Empire he went by Gibran Kahlil Gibran . His poetry is as timeless as his view towards life and the world at large everyone was his friend ! One passage Half of what I say is meaningless but I say it so that the other half may reach you was used by John Lennon in the white album on a tune called Julia . ",4
"I plan to buy 3 more copies from Amazon for my departing son & distant friends.Last night I made a mad dash to get a copy of this book ten minutes before the book store closed because I could n't find my old one . I had been trying unsuccessfully for weeks to send out an SOS to a lifelong friend whose comforting presence I really needed even if just by phone . Long sunlit walks through my beautiful neighborhood lined with 100+ year old oaks magnolias elms and maple trees did not make me feel any better . At home the news is only reporting the political and ecomonic turmoil going on worldwide or the Oscars the latter which I could care less about . It was a very sad and loney moment.Back in Miami I would naturally hit the beach or watch the ocean from my balcony and forget the world . So in desperation I jumped in my vehicle hit the book store and called on the wisdom of Mr. Gibran . I sipped a glass of red kicked back on my couch and slowly read aloud each blessed passage on all the areas of life and the challenges they can present . I do n't know why but this book always makes me cry at the beginning and smile at the end . In little over an hour I 'd read slowly through each page and felt 100 % better.On physical inspection this would be the student slackers paradise book report choice . But do n't be so easily deceived because this book packs more useful information than any 50pound college textbook without the endless verbage of a 1000 page Russian novel.It is small the paper of good weight and quality the ones I always purchase at least the print is big and the illustrations done by Mr. Gibran are simple yet humana and divinical . The words are brief and powerful comforting and idiotproof . Perfect healing food for the lovestarved yet attentiondeficit crazy world we now live in . I was first given this book by a friend as a departing gift for a 7000 landsea voyage back in 1983.I hope to be there for my friend should he ever need me . I sent this book to him as my comforting presence . ",4
"Echoing the reviews of others it is obvious that Gibran both was inspired by and inspired many of the great writers of all ages . From Buddha to Coehlo and countless others in between there is a depth of truth and a veil of simplicity that once lifted opens the mind heart and soul to universal wisdom.It is not hard to understand why Gibran was as popular in his day and in the 1960 's as he was . Covering the landscape from religion to love Gibran bubbles up deep truths in the form of a farewell speech from the Prophet to the people of his city before he sets sail on a final journey . The metaphors are numerous and the scale of depth is exceptional.The book itself is nearly 100 pages but the content is not readable at any level rapidly . This book is one that bears constant revival and renewal . It 's a well that provides the reader with sweet water of wisdom which merits frequent draws to slake the thirst.A must have and a must read . ",4
"I stumbled onto this book and it opened my mind and began my process of becoming aware.Then I went across country to collect my deceased Grandmother 's belongings . One item was this book . I opened the the cover and saw that Grandma had lent it out to her friends and they all had signed it . One person who had signed it was my Mom who had died years before before my Grandma . I 'm going to buy it for my little arrow now . 4th generation of passing it on . ",4
"I read this book many years ago It is a book that should be on ones book shelf to read often . It takes several readings to get to the heart of his deep writings of philosophy . Glad I replaced the one I lost . ",4
"These days Kahlil Gibran 's The Prophet often gets dismissed as hippie literature . Yet this book had been a bestseller LONG before the 1960s . Originally published in 1923 it almost instantly became a hit and even did well through the Great Depression . Today Gibran 's claim to fame is being the third bestselling poet of our time behind Shakespeare and Lao Tzu and pretty much entirely based on sales of this book . When his publisher Alfred Knopf was asked who the audience for the book was he flippantly dismissed the question . It Must be a cult he retorted.Yet there is no such cult . What 's incredible is that there 's absolutely no marketing hype behind the success of this book . Gibran himself is long gone . There is no political religious or commercial enterprise attached to his name bent on winning souls andor profits . The Gibran estate has merely been licensing copies year after year in response to the demand a demand fueled pretty much entirely by wordofmouth and chance discovery . The fact is the twentysix poems in this book have a surprising and suprassing relevance insight and compassion . Broken down into several topics On Love On Work On Joy and Sorrow etc . the book itself recounts the sermons of a fictional poet leaving behind the gift of knowledge before he leaves his homeland.I first found Gibran through a setting of his poem On Children by local Washington D.C. singers Sweet Honey in the Rock on their album Breaths.Your children are not your children.They are the sons and daughters of Life 's longing for itself.They come through you but not from youAnd though they are with you yet they belong not to you.At the time I was about to leave for college and eighteen years of living under my parent 's roof had made me restless for autonomy . That poem eloquently expressed everything I was yearning to say to them in my hours of frustration and adolescent angst . It later proved to be a reference to turn to in times where I needed confidence to live an independent and fulfilling life while still maintaining respect and compassion towards the parents who had raised me.I am not exaggerating when I say that the poems in this book have kept me grounded and sane throughout some of the most troubling times in my life . Our modern lives are ever hectic stressful and busy wrought with drama frustration depression etc . The knowledge in these poems brings me back to a middle ground there is a sage wisdom and clarity in the poems that has often been helpful for me in unwinding and coming back to earth . They bring me back to a place of clarity from whcih I can see my life from a wider perspective.Though Gibran himself was a Christian and despite the title and conceit of the book this is not really a religious book . The insight in this book would be applicable to your life even if you are an atheist . What 's more the poetry is mostly imagistic . Do not expect the academic poetics of Gibran 's contemporaries Eliot or Pound or even Frost . They are written with the aim of being accessible and immediate to the reader and rely mostly on clear metaphors and vivid imagery.Copies of The Prophet are not hard to come by . Perhaps check out the book 's table of contexts either using Amazon 's Search Inside feature or in your local bookstore and see if it addresses a problem or issue you are dealing with . That 's a good a place as any to start with . Chances are you will find something that speaks to you on some level . ",4
"I have loved this book for forty years both the written version and the audio Richard Harris narrating I believe with orchestral accompaniment . This new format only increases its accessibility . ",4
"When Gibran was first introduced to me I had definite doubts that his work would be the ordinary grab a dictionary sort of read . But when you first open to those sections that apply to you and listen to the words as they roll off of your tongue and dance in your ears well shock is the only word for it . Yes the ideals and beliefs that he expresses in 'The Prophet ' may not be anything new as far as philosophy is concerned but the perfect blend of brilliant poetry and this simple philosophy come together to make something that is indeed unique . I 've purchased countless copies to the ones that I know will love and understand his words . And if for nothing else Kahlil 's work can be labeled as truly a literary work of art . ",4
"Kahlil Gibran touchs the heart the soul and the mind.Beautiful words that comfort and guide.If only more people would read his work if you can call it workWonderful writing but the publisher as many seem to do these days get very artisticand print too faintly the letters are pale grey and very difficult to read.It is n't the writing it 's the publisher at fault.The printers should realize that the entire purpose of the printed word isto let people READ it . ",4
"The Prophet for me is a very vivid yet dense book . It speaks some sort of wisdom and I delight in that wisdom when I can understand it.The illustrations are done by the author himself which is nice . ",4
"The language is poetic but it is not poetry . It works as prose poetry in fact some of the best in English . That is probably because Gibran somewhat mimics the poetry of the King James Version . Some phrases and turns and images are brilliant.That said what is the point of this book ? There are some nice things . Is not religion all deeds and all reflections . Who can separate his faith from his actions . Who can spread his hours before him saying 'This is for God and this is for myself This for my soul and this other for my body ? 'Good point . There are several such nuggets . But you can tell why the hippieset loved this book it is spirituality devoid of religion . Namely this book can make you feel all cosmic without all that pesky Christian morality . That bit quoted above it is followed by He who wears his morality but as his best garment were better naked.Ah . See what morals get you . On crime and punishment we get this It Takes a Village gem And as a single leaf turns not yellow but with the silent knowledge of the whole tree So the wrongdoer can not do wrong without the hidden will of you all . See crime is not the fault of the criminal it is the fault of society . The righteous is not innocent of the deeds of the wicked Yea the guilty is oftentimes the victim of the injured . See if you selfrighteous rich folk did n't oppress the meek poor folk they would n't have to commit crime.I wonder how the injured rape victim victimized her guilty rapist.Generally the twin credos of The Prophet are 1 any path to God is the right path and 2 if it feels good do it.1 Thus the pluralistic relativism of lines likeSay not ' I have found the truth ' but rather ' I have found a truth . ' Say not ' I have found the path of the soul . ' Say rather ' I have met the soul walking upon my path . 'Forget that Jesus said I am the way the truth and the life no man cometh unto the Father but by me . John 146 by the way . No no no . Many willfully ignore that Jesus said such unecumenical things like this . The hippieJesus thinks that there are many paths to God . The whole one source many wells philosophy . Do n't believe me ? Why do you think the folks at the Jesus Seminar blackballed this very verse John 146 ? Our great loving hippieJesus believes that everyone comes to 'god ' in his own way ! He would never say that ! Blackball . That last quotation was n't an actual quote by the way.2 And though the nature of the good and evil chapter is tempered by a sortof love thy neighbor philosophy it still defines good not as following JudaeoChristian morals or even a do unto others prescription but You are good when you are one with yourself.If it feels good to you do it . Sure Gibran later seems to warn against unbridled pleasureseeking Pleasure is a freedomsong But it is not freedom . It is the blossoming of your desires But it is not their fruit . Later however such hedonism is considered a path a truth to GodSome of your youth seek pleasure as if it were all and they are judged and rebuked . I would not judge or rebuke them . I would have them seek.Thus the paradox of liberalism the Prophet rebukes you for rebuking those hedons amongst you . They are only on their path . You are so wrong to tell them that they are wrong ! Ah relativism ! The problem with unchecked hedonism You are good when you are one with yourself if you prefer is that mankind always finds some inner reasoning to justify their evil actions . Man always finds a way to make pleasureatanycost devoid of anything else his god.I do n't want to seem as if I am some stick in the mud a prude or an overmoralizing and selfrighteous Christian . Christian I am and hedon I sometimes am . I can get wheat from the chaff out of The Prophet . There is much here that is good and some of it is artfully written . Some of Gibran 's thoughts are even profound . Still there is much here that is bad there is still some shuck on the ear so to speak . Sometimes you must take the wrong path which leads you to the right path but there is just one right path not several . Gibran never seems to say that and since he was a Lebanese Christian I find that sad.There is much here to lead you astray.I will not hold it against Gibran that The Prophet has inspired numerous imitations of lesserpoetic talent sad purveyances of even fewer truths . Yes I am speaking of amongst others the trite inane cacophonies of Paulo Coelho.And for those reviewers and readers who think that The Prophet is the most poetic most enlightening most cosmically spiritual tome of all time try reading the Psalms in the KJV with an open mind.Yes . I invented the word hedon . Hedonist sounds like a philosophical school as does epicurean . The latter too is for an aesthete . Let 's say a hedon is a pleasureseeker without the philosophy . A hedon is an unsophisticate . I probably made up that word too . ",1
"This book is almost as if Kahlil Gibran took the pains and joys of millions of people and somehow managed to encapsulate all these wonders in this one book . In his own unique manner Gibran has explored every facet of human existence . Although the book has a sacred charm to it there is a universal appeal that should allow anyone of any religious persuassion enjoy this gem of a book . I would n't be surprised if a few hundred years from now some theologians unearth this book and conclude that it was a bible of our times . ",4
"Have purchased many in the past like in the 1970'safter I received one as a gift . I recommend to all ages . ",4
"Kahlil Gibran is a wonderful poet . He is a philosopher who meshes the bible with his prose . Very spiritual to read . ",3
"Residing in my mind are the words of a true poet . I was given the book THE PROPHET by my best friend when I was young . It has followed me through my life and has filled me with the emotions and practical thought I needed to guide me through the smooth and rough waters of my life . I gave this copy of Kahil Gibran 's book to a young lady with the hope she will enjoy it the rest of her life . Thank you Amazon for having this wonderful work of art available to all . ",4
"Certainly the words are of Kahlil Gibran but the eternally PRESENT divine wisdom told through his words is from the source of all sources . Only those who are ready to receive the divine wisdom are destined to read and know the meaning behind the meanings of his words . This is one of the five most valued books that I keep on refering again and again for solace and peace of MYSELF.While writing or rather while being an instrument to write this book Kahlil Gibran must have reached the original source of all the knowledge and wisdom available to humankind.Gibran 's book is music poetry wisdom and truth all at the same time ! I salute Kahlil Gibran for giving us the THE PROPHET . ",4
"I evidently misread the writeup I thought it was a hardback . It was a cheap paperback . I got it as a present so I could n't send it back but I 'm very dissapointed for the cost ! ",1
"If there were more than five stars this book would surely deserve it . This book is the paradigm of wisdom humility and grace . This is my favorite book on my shelf and I would recommend this book to anyone . Truly if Gibran was a religion The Prophet would be my Bible . Never has inspiration hit me with such velocity as reading this book . ",4
"It has helped to replace the many dysfunctional premises my sociopathic parents modeled ! This is a book with a popularity which continues to grow at phenomenal rates ! I had to buy this version since I 'd lost my original classic one . There certainly NEED to be more Half Price Book Stores here in CA ! ! ! I got spoiled by having 34 in Dallas alone ! ",4
"I was given this book by a writer friend who called it the most beautiful book I 've ever read . So since she and I have similar literary tastes I was inclined to read it . This little book written in a rich colorful deep and wise poetic style is full of some of the most moving and impressive spiritual phrases and messages I 've ever read . It was written in 1923 but its poetry and wisdom are timeless.David Rehakauthor of Poems From My Bleeding Heart ",4
"As Amin Rihani described his own friend Gibran Gibran 's style of writing is just mawkish sentimentalism . Yes sentimentalism and that is all Gibran is all about . For most Americans ' taste this guy is just pasty ! And who can stomach that ! ",0
"The Prophet is a poetic in some aspects means of viewing life . Kahlil Gibran was able to draw on various aspects of life and compile a take that is in some senses new and appreciable . ",4
"I usually do n't like getting books that I did not ask for . When someone buys a book for me there is a certain obligation to actually read it but doing so takes away time from the books I really want to read . There are so many books on my reading list and so little time to read them all that getting an unaskedfor book feels like someone actually stealing from me stealing valuable reading time.In the case of The Prophet however I did not resent the choice of my benefactor even though I had not asked for it.First of all it was a very quick read consisting of twentynine poetic speeches by the fictional prophet . He delivers them as his last word on various topics since he is about to head back home after having lived in a foreign city for twelve years and the people ask him to speak on all the important issues that touch on human life family food work emotions economics social problems art morality spirituality death etc.On most of these issues the prophet takes what might be called an Eastern stance . He stresses the importance of letting go rather than taking charge whether it 's in relationship to your children conflict situations or the end of your life.I did not find it necessary however to fully agree with this Eastern outlook to appreciate the book both for its poetic beauty and for inspiring thoughts . For whatever your own worldview a degree of letting go is an art we can all learn . Jacob Schriftman Author ofJob 's Wager An Alternative to Pascal 's Wager and the Atheist 's Wager With Color Illustrations ",4
"A must in everyone 's library for graceful poetry inpirational reading and lessons to live by and to even to let go . A new printing would be a welcome as the used ones in good condition are quite expensive . ",4
"The Prophet dispenses ultimate wisdom to his loved ones as he bids fare well.Khalil Gibran defines all that I never had words to define or more appropriately did not have the good sense to define . I discovered this book a while back and took a long time to read it since I refused to rush through it . I read it a lesson at a time understanding it to the best of my ability.I found a way of life in these words . I could read it everyday and each time these words would dispense a new lesson like a never ending treasure . ",4
"Truly a classic of world literature Gibran has snatched a chunk of wisdom from the etherfrom and for the agesand fashioned it into a masterwork . ",4
"This work still holds up decades later . Every reflective thoughtful person should have The Prophet in the home library . It can be read one chapter at a time . The chapter on love is as good as anything I 've ever read . ",4
"This is an excellent short book of inspirational fiction by one of the best poets of alltime . I especially love the artistic cover of this well made paperback edition . ",3
"The Prophet was given to me by a good friend when my Dad passed away twenty years ago . I loved it the first time I read it and I have given several copies away to friendsfamily who have lost someone they loved or had a problem I thought the book could help them with . I have 2 copies at home now and I often refer to it . A book you wo n't want to part with . ",4
"This book is poetic mytha work of beautywhose every word drips a truthand a thought of knowledge.Reading it is like swimming in realitybut a reality I have not knowntill now.Kahlil Kahlil Gibran knew something we did nothe shared a bit of the wonder of simplicity.Though this is merely the preaching of a ProphetGibran is able to turn it into storyand I feel from the gut for all the characters.The Prophet is unsurpassed in formin content best when speaking of beautyin ways I had never knownand weakest when speaking of prayer.Certainly Gibran relies on the story of Jesusand throughout there are allusions to his wordsand actions.But this is a new prophetwho speaks the words of oldthough it be in new wineskin . ",4
"I would buy from this seller again.Kahlil Gibran was a genius . The Prophet uses a lot of old English but is still an easyquick read . I can see why this book has been translated into dozens of different languages . Definitely words to live by . A poet . ",3
"I was given this book as a high school graduation gift and I have found it to be the book I look to in hard times as well as good times for advise inspiration hope and words of wisdom . I highly recommend it . ",4
"This book was recommended to me by a friend . What he told me of it is that just as The Art of War this is the book from which you take out whatever you want . What you find in it depends as much on the book as it does on you . It speaks of love life and people in the most touching way ever . I have it in my handbag at all times . When I first read it I cried . There is literally something mystical about it . I like to think I took a lot out of it . One of those books you should read again and again and again.. ",4
"Easy read . Interesting book . I bought this book on a chance of luck & really enjoyed it . I recommend it to everyone . ",3
"This is a book you can read and reread many many times.Great and timeless thoughts about relationships love andfriendship . I will share this with my family . Jeffrey C. McAndrewauthor of Our Brown Eyed Boy ",4
"Slow reading but full of Significant messages.Took long to read in order to fully capture and understandhis message . ",4
"The Prophet by Kahlil Gibran is a book that 's been around for a while . There are many passages in the book and many basic topics on marriage children friendship work and pleasure which will touch you in one form or another . ",4
"This is a classic of world literature . Everyone with a poet 's heart a lover 's heart a philosopher 's heart a dancer 's heart a parent 's heart a leader 's heart or simply who enjoys beauty found in life 's joys and sorrows this book is simply the best . ",4
"I was in my twenties when I first read The Prophet . I am now 65 . The Prophet has grown in the depth of its content as I have been able to understand more deeply . This book I believe has the meaning of the holy writings of all the great religions . As you read decide if all these writings do hold the same great truths . ",4
"A book to be treasured . A tremendous poet dealing mostly with Christianity and spiritual love . His insights on topics of life are to be cherished . I have read his treasured poems many times and brightened the lives of others by sharing . This book was highly inspiring during my emotional spiritual journey to discover my biological roots . I listed The Prophet as a key reference source in my book Adoption Detective Memoir of an Adopted Child.Judith Land AuthorAdoption Detective Memoir of an Adopted Child ",4
"I read it in an hour . Kahlil Gibran is definitely the people 's philosopher . The book itself seems to be written on impulse and the author knows what the modern world is looking for . The context is powerful and sensitive and more than anything it 's the truth . ",4
"Reading a classic such as The Prophet is much more fruitful when it is revisited often the lessons are applied and the reader reads as if Gibran is writing only to him or her.Sitting with this book in your hands can be like sitting across from Gibran listening to him speak . The accompanying art work also by Gibran gives it yet another rich element and peek into the soul of this incredible writer.Listen embrace and breathe in these words.Open your mind and heart to The Prophet . ",4
"Maybe I just was n't in the right mood for a heavily poetic book on one man 's life philosophies but this book lost me after the chapter on children . Some sections are insightful and very well written . On death children and love were my favorites . I 'm not sure how novel these ideas were back in 1928 ? when the book was first published but they are nothing new today . Still the flowery language is pretty it 's not overly long and also it 's probably one of those books that make you look cool when your reading it at a coffee shop . so it 's not all bad.This book was given to me by my dad who grew up in the 60 's and 70 's . It occurs to me that The Prophet seems to speak best to those from this generation peace love and all that crap you know . Maybe it 's just not relevant to me ? Maybe I need to approach it at a different time ? Maybe I need to smoke something herbal ? ",2
"Gibran gets right down to the bedrock of what it is all about . He was obviously a very enlightened man and The Prophet is so completely psychologically and spiritually healthy . Anyone who would not consider this work a standard for healthy living is simply simpleminded . This book should be offered to all high school students as a guide in gaining perspective on what is really important in life . I first read The Prophet about 10 years ago and I typically read it about once a year just to remind myself . However I gave my copy to my son who showed signs of being at risk at age 17 . I believe the book had a significant positive impact on him and he is now 20 and living a very responsible and balanced life . After my son had read this book I found him on the telephone one evening reading passages to a friend . It made him think and any time you can get a teenager to think it 's a very good thing . ",4
"The book came in great condition as well as on time . Feel sad though because it was lost in a move . ",3
"A short and magnificent book that will forever withstand the test of time because it speaks to and from the heart . ",4
"Kahlil Gibran 18831931 the LebaneseAmerican poet and mystic never wrote anything finer than this 1923 volume his masterwork . Had he written nothing before or beyond THE PROPHET he would still be remembered into perpetuity.Each brief chapter of THE PROPHET addresses an aspect of the human condition including Love Marriage Work Pleasure Buying and Selling Children Eating and Drinking to name but a few . Gibran espouses no particular religious ethical or moral system and yet includes them all in this slim tome written it seems with a quill of light not ink.A Higher Power by whatever name you may call it spoke through Gibran in the writing a perfect letter to the ages and an ultimate expression of Humanity . ",4
"My father has this huge book collection and I remember I was around 12 when I found this book amidst a sea of books and I thought it was pretty small so I read it in one sitIt changed my life.It talks about life love friendship death etc . All of these answers that you spend your entire life searching forare in this book . It tells you all of these things that you already know about life but somehow we keep in the back of our heads so we do n't have to do the right thing as if ignoring them will make us more human by default . There is no place that I go that this book does n't follow me.I remember in college having this teacher that I despised so much and the class was talking about their favorite book and when it came my turn I said The Prophet by Kahlil Gibran and she got all excited too and said That 's my favorite book too it 's like my BibleI remember thinking How can I have something that is so important to me in common with someone that I despise ? I guess that 's the thing about lifeI will never forget that or her ",4
"This is Kahlil Gibran at his best . The prophet is uplifting thoughtprovoking lyrical simplistic and completely unforgettable . Gibran 's unique prose poetry rythym flows like wine while reading it . This book is a classic . ",4
"My favorite book . I used the passaged in my wedding ceremony . I read it over and over and never tire of it ",4
"received on time and thank you for rel good on time service.HIS CHAPTER ON PAIN IS THE BEST . ",4
"This book takes different themes such as work love etc . and poses them as questions that a community asks a wise man who seems to be spirit talking . He is a man who is not so much of a religious base but more filled with a love of nature finding peace and depth through sensory and embracement of all dark and light . He is a person who has freedom in all areas of his life and learns from all things and all moments because of his openess and aliveness . He wants all people to gain awareness from their path thru eternity . This can be read in a variety of ways coming from each person 's belief system . I read this when I was in a state of loss loss of so much . This book can bring understanding and a shift in consciousness at least for a spell of time . It can expand who you are while you process and integrate his writings . I most definately recommend this book for all people on their journey in whatever space they are in on their path of life . ",4
"A brilliant man 's philosophy on love marriage joy sorrow time friendship and just life . Originally published in 1923 translated into more than 20 languages . Also has drawings by GibranA poetic inspiring little book that you can read over and over again ",4
"I wanted the book the Prophet as an anniversary gift to my spouse . We read this book while dating . He had copies before but lost track by giving them away . I went to Amazon and put in the title and there it wasnothing like whatit would have cost retail . So for me it was just what I was looking for at the price I could pay in the condition I could use for the perfect gift for my husband . Thank You ! ",3
"A prophet has waited twelve years in a coastal town for the ship that will bear him back to his homeland which he misses.Why he is there why he is waiting how he knows what he knows and who he is is a mystery . As he departs the townspeople gather to wish him well . A local seeress who knows him best asks him to share his wisdom so that it will endure for generations to come.So he reveals his wisdom on love birth marriage children pain talking pleasure death any so much more.It is a profound work and here is his advice on marriage so you may judge for yourselfYou were born together and together you shall be forevermore.You shall be together when white wings of death scatter your days.Aye you shall be together even in the silent memory of God.But let there be spaces in your togethernessAnd let the winds of the heavens dance between you.Love one another but make not a bond of loveLet it rather be a moving sea between the shores of your souls.Fill each other 's cup but drink not from one cup.Give one another of your bread but eat not from the same loaf.Sing and dance together and be joyous but let each one of you be aloneEven as the strings of a lute are alone though they quiver with the same music.Give your hearts but not into each other 's keeping.For only the hand of Life can contain your hearts.And stand together yet not too near togetherFor the pillars of the temple stand apartAnd the oak tree and the cypress grow not in each other 's shadow.Its not a little similar to theTao Te Ching A New English Version Perennial Classicswhere a border guard recognises Lao Tzu and asks him to share his wisdom as he goes into exile . Written 2500 years ago and one of the most translated books in the world . The Tao contains many principles you can use in your everyday life and if you 're not thinking in ego based ways your wisdom based thinking opens up..If you like one book you will love the other so I recommend both . For the Tao I recommend the Stephen Mitchell version . Hope this was useful . ",4
"This book was the first and only I 've read by Kahlil Gibran . Every chapter offers insight and philosophy on almost every subject that a person can think about . From death to love to marriage to friendship Kahlil Gibran offers a very sensitive view of all aspects of life . I 've reread it many times . ",3
"Everyone carries an omnificent quality within themselves . Some individuals have not grasped this concept . Some individuals do not realize that a simple change can create a huge transformation . Would you ask an important figure for advice before she or he left town ? Their advice would be elements about life that you already knew but seemingly forgot . There are simple fundamentals to follow that can make you a better person within your own eyes.Gibran uses The Prophet Almustafa to enlighten readers with simple tactics they can use to live a more pure and genuine life . How many of us love go to work have clothes feel pain and own friendships ? You do not have to be religious to appreciate this book . Gibran 's classic takes common stress factors that everyone can relate to and shares guidance on how to simplify it in your life When you work with love you bind yourself to yourself and to one another p. 26 . Read this book and share it . Think about the most valuable portion to you in this book . Share that portion with another person . ",4
"Since I first read The Prophet when I was a teenager I have had a copy by my side . It is a gift of such value in comprehending the depth and meaning of this wonderful Life in its beauty of every relationship that engages us . Be it work parenting eating death or love Gibran paints word images of such divine and exquisite loveliness that once read will change the reader 's perspective forever . It is a book to refer to again and again as life unfolds and offers new opportunities for spiritual growth and awareness.It is a book I have given as a gift to many young people as they grapple with the frustrations and distortions of an often incomprehensible outer world . It is a book of beautiful truths and a map to our own seeking souls . I particularly love this edition which includes Gibran 's original drawings . ",4
"I have been reading The Prophet every year for over a decade . Or intending to . It 's an incredible read . If I 'm having issues in my life I read the section that relates to my problem and it helps clarify things somewhat . It is a divinely inspired piece of work and can be read in one setting . There is pretty much nothing that he does n't cover in the book that ca n't be related to your own life . I bought the ebook version so I could have easier access . It 's a book for everyone . ",4
"Needed to read this and could not find my old copy so bought a new copy and it still helps me when I need to remember what is inside this lovely collection of wisdom ! ",4
"I first became aware of Kahlil Gibran when I read a poem of his that was on the menu at my favorite Lebanese restaurant . Ever since then I have sought out his books . The Prophet is my favorite . Several of the poems or passages are fully relevant to parts of my life . The book makes one feel good and inspired to do good for others . There is barely an aspect on life that the poems do not touch onlove marriage death and all of our own insecurities and doubts about people and life . This would be a good book to give to a friend who is going through a rough time or just has unanswered questions at a certain point in their lives . The writing is lucid insightful and will be relevant for as long as time goes on.The drawings add to an already great work . At my favorite Lebanese restaurant I not only found good foodI thankfully found Kahlil Gibran . ",3
"I appreciate getting the book at the great price . I 'm really not complaining but the book was quite yellow and the jacket was torn in various places . It looked like it was on the shelf for quite a while..Maureen ",0
"I first read this book as a teenager . It has remained on my bookshelf being read many many times . I have given it as a gift to several people over the years . It is one of my favourite books.The Prophet is a classic and is considered to be Kahlil Gibran 's masterpiece . Gibran himself considered it his greatest achievement . Originally published in 1923 it has been translated into 28 languages and is still a popular piece of literature today.The book is a beautiful blend of poetry and philosophy . Each chapter takes on a particular topic or aspect of life . The Prophet speaks on love work law freedom pain time and many other important issues we all deal with as we journey through life . Each beautifully written chapter is also illustrated by Gibran.The importance and beauty of this book is immeasurable and timeless . This book should be on every bookshelf of those who truly enjoy the beauty of poetry and classic literature to be enjoyed and appreciated by every generation . The life lessons offered by Kahlil Gibran are timeless in essence and belief . ",4
"I picked up this book after being inspired by some quotes from Kahlil Gibran . This is a brief text written in a flowery language that masks some simple points . I did not find this book inspiring or insightful but it was a short read . ",1
"This was my favorite book when i was 19 ! So I purchased it for my 19 yr old granddaughter . Hope she loves it as much as I do ! ",4
"Great read ! A book for the ages ! Each little piece of prosepoem has something simple and profound to tell us all . ",4
"Got this book for my son who was n't familiar with Kahlil Gabran . Everyone should read him at least once do n't you think ? The book was more attractive than pictured and small fits in his pocket . He likes it . ",4
"This is an amazingly beautiful book . The writings are spiritual and absolutely beautiful . They cover almost every aspect of life and provide inspiring poetic and thoughprovoking words in answer to questions raised about them . When my mother passed away I read this book over and over again . Many use the chapter on marriage as part of their wedding vows . My daughter asked me to read that chapter to her and her husband as part of their wedding ceremony . I can not think of a better way to spend $ 10.00 . You will more than get your money 's worth even if you only read one chapter in the book . ",4
"This is classic reading which I did read when it was young.I was glad to find it available for Kindle . ",4
"For one who would prefer Truth coming from a source other than the King James Version The Prophet is written with the voice of wisdom and the beauty of poetry . If there is a Black and White 'Truth ' one could easily seek it here in almost all the verses . ",3
"Gibran wrote the ultimate way of seeing life and living in it . the importance of each relationship . The book was written to be relatable to every reader all the subjects are mondain . The availability of this book is a great advantage that I do n't think people are aware of . It 's an hour long to read but a lifetime to understand if you read it you 'll remember it in every new life matter or relationship.Buy it and keep it on the shelve for reference it 's an answer to everything . and read it carefully . ",4
"Gibran was a great author and in this book he truly shines . I recommend this book to anyone even if heshe is not into reading . The book is short but full of wisdom . I only gave it 4 stars because the idea of the book and even the title are taken from Thus Spoke Zarathustra which I gave 5 stars . So I didnt think it would be fair to give this one an equal grading . I actually recommend both books but The Prophet is much easier to read while Thus Spoke Zarathustra is deeper and more intelligent . ",3
"My friend Renee gave this to me a few years back and asked me to read The Prophet . I started reading it shortly afterward and honestly had to stop for a little while because I tried consuming too much sorry my normal is history historical fiction and either scifi or fantasy after all this is poetry and philosophy and should be consumed like a fine wine or excellent scotch slowly savoring the flavor . Having let things slip a little longer than intended I started reading it again this time not trying to slam thru pages but rather reading one or two passages over lunch and seeing the impact on me . This time things flowed somewhat better for me . The individual passages are nicely done covering aspects of life relevant to anyone . While I do n't always agree with Mr. Gibran philosophy for a subject some are particularly moving for me in particular his passage on Joy and Sorrow was borderline earth shaking with his explanation of the relationship of the two describing to me why both can be so strong.Rating this one is extremely complex . Some passages touch you and make you think about your life or what you have others flow over you whether discarded for future consumption is to be determined later . Because I was n't touched by all I call this a very strong 4 star book and can easily see why lovers of poetry or philosophy could call this a 5 star book . What I can say though is thank you Renee for exposing me to The Prophet . ",3
"This book was given to me as a gift before I journeyed overseas on a spiritual quest to find myself . I never got a chance to read it until one month after I was there and I had lost my job my relationship was very unsteady and being so far form home I felt completely isolated . After skipping around the book and reading sections that immediately pertained to me at that point I cried not out of sadness but out of enlightenmentGibran wrote his experiencesand his thoughts on life but they are such detailed poetic accounts it applies to everyone at some time his writings have layers and therefore this book can be read many times over and each time a new understanding will come . Your pain is the breaking of the shell that encloses your understanding ",4
"My brother was looking for this book and I ordered it for him . I was pleased with the price and the fact I could have it shipped directly to him . Thanks Amazon ! ",4
"I originally read this early in college and did n't think it was anything special then . I saw it recently in a used bookstore for two bucks so I bought it.It took about an hour to read.There were about a dozen short passages I underlined . Most of them were n't really revelations but rather really good analogies I liked or uniquely descriptive ways of presenting commonly known truths . ",2
"Being an Atheist it may seem strange to some people that this book holds any meaning for me but I think that despite the religious references people from all walks of life will relate to the poetic prose of The Prophet.Kahlil Gibran has been greatly celebrated in several countries for the book 's simple yet biting phrases . Any two sentences in this legacy of living can be made into a thoughtaltering quote.Gibran uses a prose style throughout . Short lines of words written as freestyle poetry create a rich medium to deliver his words.Each section has something poweful to say but some of my favorites were those on Work Giving Children Crime and Punishment Freinds Time and of course Love.As oppposed to most books containing the word Prophet anywhere in the title Gibran expresses life as something to be enjoyed and soaked in as many ways as possible . The book does not stress the punishment of sins but to bask in pleasure and not look back . Decadence is not suggested but the basic purpose of Gibran 's legacy is to tell us that life is short and must be lived without regrets.It is a book that includes such beautiful metaphors and velvetty language that you are always sucked into reading just one more section . What makes the book work is not just the simple genius of the author 's statements but also the beauty of his words the flow of his language.I hate to be like everyone else in more instances than just this but it does change you . It states what any prophecy should and allows the religious aspects of the beliefs to take the backseat to the love of life and aspirations.Buy read and live by The Prophet 's words . ",4
"I bought this book for my son who had his stolen from him and was in despair . He likes the beautiful poetic resonance and in looking through the book I agree . This is a book for sensitive souls beautifully written and illustrated by the author . ",4
"A classic which has only improved with time . The thoughts and ideas in this book would make the world a better place ! ",4
"I ca n't think of a title fitting enough . What can you say about a book that you believe to be oneofakind ? I have yet to find a book that I can compare it to . I suppose I could at least explain why I find this book to be so unique.First of all this book covers most all of life 's complex issues in the simplest fashion and in that respect it is uncanny in presentation . Secondly and astonishingly the author portrays a story of a prophet speaking to his people but I can not be so shallow to think that I am reading a said story I am not reading the said storywhat is actually happening is that I am the listener and Kahlil Gibran is the prophet himself . I strongly feel that if you the reader do not come away with this feeling yourself you are probably reading some other book.I think what would do justice in this review is to explain some feelings you may get from a brief reading in fact with that said I can state with confidence that many readers will peruse only a few pages at a time because the content is overwhelming in its ability to provoke thought and feeling . You may feel at times that some all important life questions are being answered . You may feel regret like I did I regret not having this book earlier in life to help me . I believe that a great many of you will feel amazed . It is truly amazing how such a short simple book can have such a profound impact on a person searching for answers to life 's puzzles.There is a quote from the Urantia Book that is appropriate in closing this review . The quote helps to sum up one of the unexpected feelings I received from this incredible story and that quote is.. The argumentative defense of any proposition is inversely proportional to the truth contained . and I give this quote because this book gives you the feeling that you are reading divine truth . I am a firm believer that if Kahlil Gibran is not a modern day prophet no one is and you too may come away with this belief because this is a story that really speaks to the heart of humanity . I can not think of anyone who would not love this book . ",4
"I 've always been wary of stories claiming ownership of principles of truth and wisdom and attempting to package them in tidy marketable portions for mass consumption . However I found this novella unique and unpretentious in it 's delivery of many truths that at first glance may appear intuitive but in reality escape me in the daily practice of my life . It was a wellwritten thoughtprovoking tale that helped me focus on the most important things of my daily life . ",4
"My intention here is to comment on the quality of this reading rather than the timeless content the quality of which is well known.I very much enjoyed Paul Sparer 's reading . I found his rich bass voice and eloquent style ideal for Gibran and very pleasing to listen to . Unlike another reviewer I was not at all distracted by the music in fact I barely noticed it . Taste in such things is a personal issue and for what it 's worth this reading very much suits my tastes . ",4
"I have loved this book since I first acquired it decades agoa classic in every since of the word . I have always kept a book copy had to have an ecopy too . ",4
"Gibran 's words strike as deep and sudden as lightning and lay bare to you with unbelievable simplicity the truths of human life . And they do so beautifully . To read this book is to enrich yourself enlighten yourself and to enjoy some of the most beautiful words ever written . Gibran 's accompanying drawings are as mystical and moving as his words and accentuate the utterances of the Prophet.The sheer wisdom and beauty of this little book is undeniable . All hail the Prophet . ",4
"Here is a book that will get your spiritual side working again . This book subscribes to no particular religions but gives much to reflect upon . This is a short book . It will only take you around an hour or so to read it . But if you want to take a break from the hectic daytoday lives we lead and think about the deeper meanings of life this book is for you . It 's the story of a prophet that comes to a town and gives the townspeople his wisdom . They ask him questions about life and he gives them deep spiritual answers . Simple concept great read . ",4
"An unusual departure of an imaginary prophet Saying goodbye his people gather around him asking about human nature and life ! ! The dialogue takes the form of questions and answerswhich makes it a little monotonousbut the poetic language and the symbolic style of explanation takes your mind away and makes you wonder impatiently what the next question will be ! ! An inspiring revelation of truths Love one another but make not a bond of loveEven as the strings of a lute are alone though they quiver with the same music ",2
"This man was a son of a pastor but worshipped a profit not God Do your homework on him . The Bible is the truth . Do n't be misled by what this book tells you.This quote is from Wikipedia Thompson reported Gibran later saying that all the way through writing Jesus the Son of Man he thought of ` Abdu'lBah & aacute . Years later after the death of ` Abdu'lBah & aacute at a viewing of a movie of ` Abdu'lBah & aacute Gibran rose to talk and proclaimed in tears an exalted station of ` Abdu'lBah & aacute and left the event weeping . A noted scholar on Gibran is Suheil Bushrui from Gibran 's native Lebanon also a Bah & aacute ' & iacute published more than one volume about him and serves as the Kahlil Gibran Chair for Values and Peace at the University of Maryland and winner of the Juliet Hollister Awards from the Temple of Understanding.Abdu'lBah & aacute ' Arabic & # 1593 & # 1576 & # 1583 & # 1575 & # 1604 & # 1576 & # 1607 & # 1575 & # 1569 & # 8206 & # 8206 23 May 1844 28 November 1921 born ` Abb & aacutes Effend & iacute was the eldest son of Bah & aacute ' u 'll & aacuteh1 the founder of the Bah & aacute ' & iacute Faith . ",0
"I recently read an article in The New Yorker Magazine about Kahlil Gibran writer born in the middle east to Christian parents . Kahlil Gibran managed to immigrate to NYC with his mother and siblings . Gibran 's personal life and his early death his exotic looks and ability to both write and paint is what attracted me to read his masterpiece The Prophet . It is a mystic story written in verse less than 100 ages long with a dozen fantastic paintings that remind of magical realism in painting . The book is a manifest on how to live love work dress embrace joy and sorrow accept righteousness and mankind far from perfection . It is a book of duality that in the most beautiful language a young philosopher teaches the ways to live life . No matter what world culture continent or country one comes fromthis verse is universal . If anything this piece of work has compelled me to seek out other of Gibran 's work . I need to get into a mind of this wonderful thinker who himself led a very complicated and solitary life . It has been a long time since I read anything as beautiful and touching as this piece of literature . ",4
"You 've got to be kidding all you 5 star reviewers ! This overly sentimental trash is sickening ! It just rambles on and on with nonsense . It is said that Gibran is a great poet . Really ? It has no poetic value whatsoever . Save your $ 2 my friend and if you 're looking for enlightenment try Siddhartha . ",0
"I am almost 51 years old . When i was 18 and deeply conflicted weighted down with the confusions that can only be so impossibly painful at that young age my mother gave me a hardback copy of The Prophet . I 've carried it with through all these years as a treasured companion . It helped me make sense of the nonsense my life was back there in 1974 and has comforted me more then a couple times in the years since then as well.Today i 'm here at Amazon to buy the same book for my 19yearold daughter . She 's a bright warm funny sweet girl who is undergoing no small amount of angst as her comfy girlhood world slips away . Her friends have begun to scatter to the windssome to jobs and some to collegeand her own adult responsibilities loom ever taller.Why she has asked me why do i feel so sad ? I have no reason to be so sadbut i am . Why ? And my mind has flashed toYour joy is your sorrow unmasked.And the selfsame well from which your laughter rises was oftentimes filled with your tears.And how else can it be ? So i want this book for my wonderful daughter . I think she 's ready for it and better i think it will help the turmoil in her soul as it did for me when i was her age and for my mother before me . ",4
"Inspirational and true teachings about various aspects of life are what you will find when you read this beautiful book . The book is short 96 pages and includes artwork by the author . The short chapters begin with various people a ploughman a judge a woman a rich man an old priest a mason a hermit etc.asking the mystic to speak about different subjects of life such as On Beauty On Good and Evil On Marriage On Joy and sorrow on friendship and many moreI have to say that if I had come across this book much earlier in my life I know I would not have understood or appreciated the beauty of it . I mentioned a quote from this book to a friend once who told me that her mother in law gave her the book years ago and she had never read it . I told her what a treasure it was and after finally reading it she loved it too.There is so much wisdom here to learn from . This is an incredible book ! ",4
"I am alive like you and I am standing beside you.Close your eyes and look around you will see me in front of you.~Gibran 's words on his EpitaphThe Prophet captures the teachings of Kahlil Gibran in a comforting story that succinctly touches on everyday topics like love giving joy sorrow freedom pain teaching friendship and beauty . Within each tiny chapter profound moments can occur as we are given insight into unfamiliar territory a place of thought not commonly existing in daily life but familiar to spiritual teachers.Kahlil Gibran magically explores the connection between sorrow and joy and how the deeper the sorrow you experience the more joy you can contain . Talking becomes thoughts that can no longer dwell in the solitude of your heart so they live in your lips.As Almustafa waits for a ship to take him back to the isle of his birth he climbs a hill outside the city walls and looks out to sea . When his ship arrives he is suddenly filled with regret yet knows he must follow his destiny and return home.Long were the days of pain I have spent within its walls and long were the nights of aloneness and who can depart from his pain and his aloneness without regret ? The priests and priestesses ask him to remain in very poetic ways Let not the waves of the sea separate us now and the years you have spent in our midst become a memory.Almustafa only cries and does n't seem to speak until a woman named Almitra appears . She is a woman who believed in him and he seems to have great fondness for her . We are not given any insight into their relationship but his respect for her is unquestioned . She understands he must leave but asks him to give the city his wisdom . She promises they will pass this wisdom down through the generations.While viewing pictures of Bsharri in Northern Lebanon the mountains and the mist are almost a unique doorway into Kahlil Gibran 's mind . He lived in a lush region where cascading falls rugged cliffs and cedar trees influenced his art and writing.We can imagine his thoughts of home and this book was actually first imagined when he wrote a short story as a teenager . A Bostonian poet Josephine Peabody caught Gibran 's attention at an art exhibition and she later referred to him as her young prophet . She also wrote poems about Gibran 's life and how she imagined his life in Bsharri . His life is woven into his writing in the most beautiful ways . He names his book for a woman he loves and his writing is infused with spiritual teachings and influences from his journey from Lebanon to New York.The story has an unassuming plot but the lessons are eternal and the ending is surprisingly tender . I was left with a sense of longing that is still drifting along with me like the mists of Bsharri . The Prophet is not just a book to read it is a spiritual journey to experience . It may take three or more days to complete the reading of this tiny book . I could only read about a third at a time because it is saturated in wisdom and many of the chapters want to be read and read again until they are absorbed into your soul and written on your heart.But if you love and must needs have desireslet these be your desiresTo melt and be like a running brook thatsings its melody to the night . ~Kahlil Gibran~The Rebecca Review ",4
"When i ordered this book i knew it was worth it . The Prophet teaches us about life with its pains sorrows joy and love and much more . This book deserves more than five stars i highly recommend it . ",4
"The prevailing popularity of Gibran 's PROPHET lies in only one secret he writes his poems with readers in his mind . The compassionate poet I come to know through his lines Gibran did not write to impress shock or confuse but to communicate truth with highest poetic beauty . THE PROPHET addresses 27 essential subjects of life that concerns everyone love freedom children work selfknowledge friendship time beauty death to name a few . I have this book for many years but this is a kind of poetry that ripens with time and each time you take a sip it still surprises you with refreshing revelations . Also recommended are his less known books A TEAR AND A SMILE SAND AND FOAM and THE GARDEN OF THE PROPHET . ",4
"Seldom has there been a book that I have read time and time again as much as this one . I have given this book numerous times to people as a small gift . I have used this book in my son 's christening when he was a baby and on numerous holidays . These words are every bit as relevant when they were written . For all time this book still ranks in my top 5 . ",4
"The Prophet is a supreme literary achievement that has impacted millions of people around the globe . The Prophet has been translated into many languages and has sold millions of copies . Gibran 's chefd'oeuvre will provide the reader with an ecstatic refined and transcending literary experience ! ! ! ",4
"The Prophet is an elegant and beautifully crafted piece of art that eloquently states Universal Truths concerning all pertinent aspects of ourlive . These include love death justice art etc . It 's divine poetr that could have only been inspired by the creator of this magnificent world.Highly recommended . ",3
"This is a very usefull book that can be used as a secondary source for your primary religious texts . Not only does it give you excellent prophetic sayings but when reading anyone could have a diffrent interpretation . Here is some things you could look to findYour pain is the breaking of the shell that encloses your understanding.Say not I have found the truth but rather I have found a truth.Say not I have found the path of the soul but rather I have met the soul walking upon my path . For the soul walks upon all paths.You talk when you cease to be at peace with your thoughts.For what is evil but good tortured by it 's own hunger and thurst.And beauty is not a need but an ecstasy.Who can seperate his faith from his actions or his belief from his occupation.To judge you by your failures is to cast blame upon the seasons for their inconsistency.No man can reveal to you aught but that wich is already lies half asleep in the dawning of your knowledge.If he is indeed wise he does not bid you enter the house of his wisdom but rather leads you to the threshhold of your own mind.And even as each of you stands alone in god 's knowledge so must each of you be alone in his knowledge of God and his understanding of the earth . ",4
"I recently reread this after many years and found the words to resonate with wisdom and spiritual centeredness . The book can be enjoyed and read with profit by people from all faiths and traditions . Each will find some treasure that speaks to their heart . There is nothing in THE PROPHET that would contradict or conflict with any of the sacred texts of the world 's major religions . It somehow encompasses the teachings of all of them in a secular and beautiful work of literature . ",4
"This book was a philosophical touchstone for insecure Boomers of the mid1970s . Everybody I knew in those days had to be able to discuss it intelligently or risk being thought to have a gap in our characters as people . A folk talking blues singer of that era I forget who referred to this book in a lyrica copy of Kahlil Gibran 's 'The Prophet ' with all the significant passages highlightedthe whole damn BOOK was highlitedIn truth the whole phenomenon was symptomatic of the societal immaturity of my generation as young adults . It taught us all sorts of theoretical concepts of human nature that were not necessarily reflective of the real worldconsideration the dignity of each person peace love repudiation of prejudiceall of this in a world that anything but reflected such beliefs in Gibran 's day . And except for the hippydippy pseudoenlightenment we tried to cram down the world 's throat in our day our peculiar era was no better . We just used Gibran and other such philosophers to peerpressure one another into selfdefeating meekness . If someone you knew was erudite enough to understand philosophy but did n't have the moxie to stand up to people when he should Gibran was the ideal way to make him a bona fide doormat and make him think he liked it . I wo n't even try to speculate how relevant Gibran is nowadays . From the perspective of a sadder but wiser manor at least not quite as stupidI give you this Sting lyric from the song Consider Me Gone for considerationTo search for perfectionIs all very wellBut to wait for HeavenIs to live here in Hell ",0
"One of the best books written in English ever . Simple yet extremely penetrating like Jonathan Livingston Seagull deeply thoughtprovoking like Stranger in a Strange Land semantically precise yet as moving as the Psalms of David Gibran 's masterpiece is timeless . ",4
"This is a wonderful expression of some of the fundamental truths of human nature and existence . This little book is always on my desk and every now and I revisit it again and ruminate over the wisdom that Al Mustafa gives to the people of the city of Orphalese.As Al Mustafa prepares to leave Orphalese after 12 years the seeress Almitra imploresYet this we ask ere you leave us that you speak to us and give us of your truth.And we shall give it unto our children and they unto their children and it shall not perish.In your aloneness you have watched with our days and in your wakefulness you have listened to the weeping and laughter of our sleep.Now therefore disclose us to ourselves and tell us all that has been shown you of that which is between birth and death.and thus begins the beautiful explanation of love marriage children houses clothes teaching talking religion and many more . Actually you can read this entire book online so you do n't necessarily need to purchase one to enjoy it . Some of my favorite ones include On Houses On Teaching On Talking and On religion.and he parts by saying Less hasty am I than the Wind yet I must go.We wanderers ever seeking the lonelier way begin no day where we have ended another day and no sunrise finds us where sunset left us ",4
"Quote from The Prophet You are good when you walk to your goal firmly and bold steps . Yet you are not evil when you go thither limping . Even those who limp go not backwards.This book has wise views from the author about all areas of our lives like love marriage crime knowledge painetc it 's written in semi poetic way with simple writing . ",4
"This is an excellent book . it arrived in good shape . i have loaned it out to other people . they are astounded that it is a used book ",4
"This book never ages it is sincerely ageless ",4
"I love the Prophet and tend to buy copies to give to people who may need it 's message . I do n't ever loan mine out because it never comes back ! This book speaks on all matters human ! I 've owned it since I was 14 and go back to it constantly . I especially love the sections on children love and marriage . It 's a wonder insightful read and I highly recommend it . It 's also rather spiritual which is lovely . It 's not like the bible but easy to read and take in . It can give you peace when you need it . Please consider adding it to your library . ",4
"This book still holds all the philosophical magic 70 years after Gibran wrote it . He managed to distill some basic truths about life and they are as applicable now as they were then . ",4
"As he the prophet awaits the ship that will return him to his home country after fourteen years of being absent he begins providing answers in colorful parables to questions raised by the occupants of the city he has temporarily made his home . We follow this spiritual man as the loving townspeople seek him out for wisdom . There is ultimately great sadness when he departs.I would describe these writings as poetic philosophic prose for daily spiritual living . There are many sound words with a relaxed style and a somewhat universalistic belief . It is okay.Lord 's blessingsScott ",2
"Have had this particular book for many years . I have given it to family and friends . Especially young woman . For me it put life in proper perspective and especially helpful when both my children moved to Europe . Think there is something for everyone . ",4
"One of the classics that everyone should read . It is also one of the most profound books that is this short . ",4
"Pure mastery in words revealing the essence of life . Very simply this book speaks to everyone . It does n't matter who you are or what you believe . It brings tears to me each time I read it because if your mind is open you will achieve a feeling of higher existence upon completion of your reading . I hope you will take that understanding and infuse it within all you do.I also recommend listening to Richard Harris ' reading of this book though it may be out of print these days . ",4
"I can never quite make up my mind on this book . I read it years ago and was also somewhat puzzled by it . Rereading it I feel vague inspiring feeling and the other a kind of vague repulsion . I see many many readers are inspired by the work . I myself feel it to be a kind of sentimental popular mixture of Whitman and Zarathustra but without the great lyric sweeping of the former or the fierce intellectual irony of the latter.I believe the most famous section of the work of twenty six poetic essays is the one on 'LoveHere is some of thisLove gives naught but itself and takes naught but from itself.Love possesses not nor would it be possessedFor love is sufficient unto love.When you love you should not say God is in my heart but rather I am in the heart of God.And think not you can direct the course of love for love if it finds you worthy directs your course.Love has no other desire but to fulfil itself.But if you love and must needs have desires let these be your desires To melt and be like a running brook that sings its melody to the night.To know the pain of too much tenderness.To be wounded by your own understanding of loveAnd to bleed willingly and joyfully.To wake at dawn with a winged heart and give thanks for another day of lovingTo rest at the noon hour and meditate love 's ecstasyTo return home at eventide with gratitudeAnd then to sleep with a prayer for the beloved in your heart and a song of praise upon your lips.I am reminded when I read this of Bellow 's description of the healer in 'Seize the Day ' Dr. Temkin . On the one hand he says and thinks that it is phony and on the other he hears certain things and says ' True True . '.I must admit my reaction remains mixed . I do not feel it is really poetic truth of the highest value but I do not feel it is without value either . ",3
"Should we could we all walk through life in such an enlightened state ? What a wonderful peaceful world it would be . How can we deny that Kahlil Gibran was directed by the Gods to deliver a message be as one live in the light love is the only answer ! and so I paraphrase but in truth it is a way of life that is essential to the wellbeing of mankind . ",4
"If I have ever read a book that is timeless other than the Word of God it would have to be this one . Although I may not have agreed with every word written so many of the words of wisdom within these pages brought peace and comfort to me.I read this book many many years ago . I quoted from it at times and thought of it often . The words seemed to wrap themselves around your heart and spring out in times of need . There are not many books that can stake that claim and I have read many.A classic in my opinion and a book that will never be outdated.Recommended . ",4
"I first stumbled across Gibran in a quote a firend shared with me while I was going through a divorce . The quotes on Pain Joy and Sorrow and Love became touchstones . This is a very touching perceptive work . ",4
"I highlighted or wanted to highlight almost every word . So much beautiful metaphor and profound wisdom here . I wish everyone read this and took it to heart . ",4
"This is a very beautiful book . It contains a lovely section on marriage emphazing the importance of seperate identities between lovers . ",4
"This may be a short book but it is full of insight . It is perfect to dip into at odd moment for that renewed spiritual focus or uplift or just as good to read in one sitting . It is a classic with good reason and cuts to the core with it 's deceptively simple style . There is much depth to this book to be explored and comes highly recommended.Feel free to check out my blog which can be found on my profile page . ",4
"Have you ever read a line first you feel the language is beautiful and next a thought even a reality hits you ? And even after you have finished the message keeps playing on and on in your mind ? Well this book is one of them if you have luckily found other books by other author.It is the exploration of self soul community nature and universe . No matter what religion you hold from where you came or whowhat you are . This is a book for every human being to know and keep in perspective what they are doing everyday . ",4
"This book is tagged as THE PROPHET by KAHLIL GIBRAN . Alas I know I 'm easily annoyed but I did n't even open the sample of this book once I saw that the title and author were in all caps . I 'm sure the text is fine but I did n't bother to look . I bought a different edition instead . ",2
"Like watching an Olympic athlete or listening to an accomplished singer reading Khalil Gibran is in many ways indescribeable.In that way it 's good that many of the other reviewers have tried to describe this book by giving anectodes of how it personally touched them . But ultimately those anectodes are like the stories of people who 've gone to some great vacation spot.Sure they can tell you how they felt enjoying its weather or appreciating its beauty but such descriptions will never compare to you taking your own personal journey there.Because of the way this book is written some of its passages will no doubt touch you more than others but it is beyond doubt that you will emerge touched and having that rare feeling of connecting with someone only through the medium of the printed word.I wish we could award more than five stars . I wish it could be an infinityfor every heart touched by this wonderful wonderful book . ",4
"I turn to The Prophet for perspective whenever life gets distorted and seems to be on its own track . This book offers poetic and visionary commentary on some of the most vital points of living and does so in a creative thoughtprovoking way . I first learned of Kahlil Gibran and The Prophet during a sermon at a Unitarian Universalist church and I ran to get the book . It 's occupied an important place on my bookshelf ever since . It helps me realize that life is a process and letting go is a big part of moving forward . It also reminds me to be mindful of how I think about and interact with the world . It keeps things in perspective . The Prophet is an inspirational read . ",4
"I have no memory of buying this book but I had it when I was a kid and loved it . Maybe I should buy it again . I have no idea where it is now ",3
"Great little book full of seemingly common sense . Should be read by any judgemental person or religomanic . Should be cheaper ! ",4
"I just love Gibran . I have most of his writings . It took him 9 years to finish this little book and it is so spiritual not religious . It is a book of love . I highly recommend this work to everyone . ",4
"At least 6 out of 5 stars ! The deeper that sorrow carves into your being the more joy you can contain is my favourite quote from this classic book of magical mystical poetry and philosophy . There is insight and wisdom on every page . 25 years after someone first leant me a copy it seems to have more relevance to life 's fundamental challenges than ever.Kahlil Gibran tells the story of Almastafa 's departure from the city of Orphalese . As he leaves the prophet Almastafa shares his thoughts on just about every aspect of the human experience . Your pain is the breaking of the shell that encloses your understanding Work is love made visible And think not that you can direct the course of love for love if it finds you worthy directs your course.However The Prophet is much more than a few inspiring selfhelp quotes . More a case of some of the deepest Eastern wisdom universally applicable to the human condition . Long may it continue to inspire countless numbers of people around the world . ",4
"It is a true masterpiece in which almost every if not every word counts . I have read it over and over again since a girlfriend gave me a copy just before I left for Berkeley to attend law school . I have given copies to many friends and recommended to others that they buy it and read it carefully.There is enormous wisdom in each chapter especially given the materialistic and secular world in which we live which often seems for many people to be devoid of meaning or any spiritual underpinnings . Gibran cuts through to the beauty and essence of Life and his words are just as profound today as when they were written in the early years of the last century.This book should be recommended reading for any young person who is old enough to wonder what Life is really all about . Indeed it can be picked up at any age and it offers insights that are brilliant and beautifully written.I urge anyone who is thinking about buying it to do so . Just peruse a copy at a local bookstore or library and you are apt to become enthralled . It may take several readings to soak up its essence and even after many years I still find nuances and learn more each time I reread it . ",4
"Say not ' I have found the truth ' but rather ' I have found a truth . 'Kahlil GibranAs you read Gibran 's poetry brings spiritual and visual beauty to life within you . Gibran is justly famous for rich metaphors that brilliantly highlight the pursuit of Truth and Goodness amidst all the darkness and light of human nature.This is a book to read alone or with a partner to give and receive to go back to again and again.Note the excerpts available in Amazon 's Search This Book facility unfortunately do not do The Prophet justice since only the book 's introduction is included whereas the wisdom does not begin unfolding until a bit later . Therefore I 've taken the liberty of including here another excerpt which more properly demonstrates the gentle power of Gibran 's writing.And a woman who held a babe against her bosom said Speak to us of Children.And he saidYour children are not your children.They are the sons and daughters of Life 's longing for itself.They come through you but not from youAnd though they are with you yet they belong not to you.You may give them your love but not your thoughts.For they have their own thoughts.You may house their bodies but not their soulsFor their souls dwell in the house of tomorrow which you can not visit not even in your dreams.You may strive to be like them but seek not to make them like you.For life goes not backward nor tarries with yesterday.You are the bows from which your children as living arrows are sent forth.The archer sees the mark upon the path of the infinite and He bends you with His might that His arrows may go swift and far.Let your bending in the archer 's hand be for gladnessFor even as He loves the arrow that flies so He loves also the bow that is stable . ",4
"Great book I shared with my coworkers and have n't gotten it back yet so everyone at work is enjoying the book as much as I did . ",3
"A very short book only 133 pages published in 1926 . To be honest I have no idea why I downloaded this . I have a vague memory of listening to a radio programme on the author some time ago which I found interesting so it must have been that ! Gibran is described in Wikipedia as 'the third best selling poet of all time behind Shakespeare and Laozi . 'The book is written in bibleesque so if you are not a fan of that or indeed of religion it may not be a book for you . On the other hand and bearing in mind this was published in 1926 almost every passage can be related to every single one of us and our lives today.There are no chapter numbers in this short volume but they are defined by the questions asked of 'The Prophet ' by the assembled town folk as he prepares to leave them returning to his 'home'.MarriageChildrenGivingEating and DrinkingWorkJoy and SorrowCrime and PunishmentFreedomReason and PassionPainTeachingFriendshipGood and EvilPrayerPleasureReligionDeathSo many of the words written by Gibran over 80 years ago must surely if you are tempted to purchase this book resonate with something in your life today and his simple but reasoning outlook will remind you to step back and reflect on how you look at life and maybe think that there is something that you can do to change for the better on how you interact with others and with yourself ! I 'm not saying that I have had a religious or moral epiphany while reading this book I personally still have no idea whether I am an atheist agnostic or just a plane old fence sitter waiting for something different or better to come along if that is indeed possible . I did write somewhere in regard to the Bible and I suppose in the same tone the Koran would be included that I look upon the former as a good novel and if only more people would read it them without the religious zealotry and bigotry surrounding it them the world would probably be a far better place for all humankind but that aint gon na happen . But that should not take away from the fact that there are important life lessons in these works that are as relevant today as they were when they were written as Mr Gibran 's words I believe fall firmly within that description.Enjoy..Editing for Kindle 4 out 5Reading Enjoyment 5 out of 5PlotOverall Rating 5 out of 5ChaptersPage length 133 ",4
"Beautiful wholly accessible brought tears to my eyes . As graceful as Jesus ' parables must have been when freshly spoken without the distortion of time and culture and multiple translations . The Prophet had been on my list of oh yeah I 've heard about it and probably should read it one day books . A friend 's recommendation bumped it from there into my Kindle . This is the book that motivated me to learn how to underline and save notes the Kindle equivilent of dogearing my favorite parts . Somehow less satisfying than a dogear but really easy to retrieve later.Other books that have made it from the list to my shopping cart sit largely unread because they are just too much work . I probably wo n't read Don Quixote for example until I 'm sitting on the Spanish Med and polishing my classic Spanish . Easy AND good for you . How perfect is that ? ",4
"Gibran may be a poet rather than a true prophet but the simple truths in this book seem applicable to all religions . The short passages on love children pain beauty death and other timeless topics are full of insight and inspiration but completely lacking in the politics and selfrighteousness that pervade so many religions . This book is goodness plain and simple and it changed my life more than any other book I can recall reading . ",4
"I plan to buy this bookand a few othersthat I had a long time ago . To write a better review I would need to refresh myself on Eastern or Middle Eastern mysticismPersian more specificallySufism and also the background of Kahlil Gibran.What I can say is that these small stories or parables or fables are Zenlike thoughtprovoking and instructive . I loved this book when I read it and I wrote one of my still best poems while I was in the state of mind this book put me in . I 'm positive it was just after I turned 16 because I have memories connected to reading it in my room with an open window and hearing a Friday night football game in the distance from the high schooland not wanting to go to another football game because I had to free my friend from the outside portapotty after my other friend thought she was being funny and held the door closed when the other girl was going to come out.and naturally my claustrophobic friend started screaming and freaking out . She did the same thing I would do.Anyone of any age can enjoy this bookI just wish I had a copy around so I could refresh my memory and do a more detailed review . Of course I 'm sure I would have read it more than the one time I read it if I did have the same copy I had when I was a teenager . I always read books I really like more than one time.This book and The Little Prince by Saint ExuperySiddharthaDemian and Steppenwolf all by Herman Hesse are books I read at the same time period and that I also do n't have anymoreeither because I gave my copy to someoneorhad bought another copy for myself and also gave that copy away orthey just went the way of all thingsas things goin time and my 16th birthday was quite awhile agosigh . 16 has also gone the way of all things.but not completely ! Anyone who likes The Prophet or any of the other titles I mentioned can consider themselves lucky if they have a friend who has reador who has one of these books on their bookshelvesor who has a friend that would also appreciate this type of literature . It 's A Beatles Thing . Not so much connected to The Beatles but people who like the same type of music always like their friends morewhen their friends like the same type of music that they like . Beatles ZeppelinPink FloydRob Zombie Black Sabbath or GodsmackOr Johann Sebastian Bachwriting or musicit 's still art . And we just feel more comfortable with people who have interests or feelings or an intellect similar to our own . .Aesthetic magnetism is a vibration more in tune with the spiritand everyone is in love with their soulmatesto have common ground or be in sympathy with one another on a deeper level than the common plane of the inescapable movements of the mundane..Anyone reading The Prophetand finding themselves on common ground with the authorwill find gratificationand will know exactly what I mean in what I wrote in this short review . ",4
"The Prophet Almustafa waits in the city of Orphalese for his ship to take him home . For twelve years he has loved cried laughed taught dreamt and lived with strangers . He is joyous when he sees the sails on the horizon . Long were the days of pain I have spent within its walls and long were the nights of aloneness and who can depart from his pain and aloneness without regret ? What can a poor man leave for those he has learned to love ? Almustafa walks through the city across the sands toward the shore as he does he pauses to answer the questions of the heart . Nor is it a thought I leave behind me but a heart made sweet with hunger and thirst.His words will pass from generation to generation in Orphalese . The metaphor is reality for the wisdom of his celebration of life is as powerful today as it was when it was published in 1923.Some of my favorite passages areOf Joy and Sorrow The deeper the sorrow carves into your being the more joy you can contain . Is not the cup that holds your wine the very cup that was burned in the potter 's oven ? Of Giving You give but little when you give of your possessions . It is when you give of yourself that you truly give.Of Reason and Passion Your reason and your passion are the rudder and the sails of your seafaring soul.Of Time You would make a stream upon whose bank you would sit and watch its flowing . Yet the timeless in you is aware of life 's timelessness . And knows that yesterday is but today 's memory and tomorrow is today 's dream.Each phrase carries you from one thought to another . The profoundness of his truth is not gleaned until the words are read many times . The Prophet by Kahlil Gibran is extraordinary and will always be one of my favorite books of philosophy poetry wisdom mysticism and prose.Victoria Tarrani ",4
"Gibran 's Prophet is the best example of how simple prose can be used to convey deep and powerful statement . As the name suggests the book just recounts some sermons given by a prophet . The themes discussed include love family friendship freedom etc . This is one of those classsics that one must own and read every once in a while for the wisdom in these words is bound to make every reader a better completer person . It is a spiritual prose full of deep insight and inspiration for one and all.Some qoutes that I particularly likeAnd ever it has been that love knows not his own depth until the hour of separation.When love beckons to you follow him though his ways are hard and steep.Work is love made visible.Your joy is your sorrow unmasked.The deeper that sorrow carves into your being the more joy can it contain.Your house is your larger body.And how shall you punish those whose remorse is already greater than thier misdeeds.For reason ruling alone is a force confiningAnd passion unattended is a flame that burns to its own destruction.Your pain is breaking of the shell that encloses your understanding.For self is a sea boundless and measureless.For vision of one man lends not its wings to another man.In longing for your giant self lies your goodness and that longing is in all of you.Trust your dreams for in them is hidden the gate to eternity . ",4
"The Prophet is one of those books that you refer to often over the years . And to have it on my Kindle so I can take it anywhere is a real treat ! ",4
"I admire the philosophy of this author . This book is ageless and inspirational should be one of those mandatory books for high school . ",4
"Beautifuly written book and as you read it again over the years you find more and more meaning in it . ",4
"The Prophet is Almustafa called the chosen and the beloved who has lived twelve years in the foreign city of Orphalese and is now waiting for the ship that is to come and take him back to the isle of his birth . Just as the ship appears all the men and women of the community including the elders of the city and the priests and priestesses come to say farewell . They ask him to stay but he refuses . Then the local seeress named Almitra addresses him as Prophet of God and asks him to speak to them of love and then marriage . After this others ask him to speak of various subjects some lofty such as children giving and joy and sorrow and others more mundane such as eating and drinking work houses and buying and selling . There are in fact a total of 26 short chapters in which the Prophet holds forth before he takes his leave . Kahlil Gibran was born Gubran Khalil Gibran to a Maronite Catholic family in the historic town of Bsharri in modernday Lebanon then part of the Ottoman Empire . His mother Kamila was the daughter of a priest . When his father was imprisoned for embezzlement Kamila decided to follow her brother to the United States settling in the South End of Boston MA then the second largest LebaneseAmerican community in the United States . Due to a mistake at school he was registered as Kahlil.As a young man Gibran studied art and began a literary career . His first book for the Alfred A. Knopf publishing company was The Madman in 1918 a slim volume of aphorisms and parables written in a Biblicallike cadence somewhere between poetry and prose . The Prophet is said to be an early example of inspirational fiction consisting of a series of philosophical essays written in poetic English prose . The book became especially popular during the 1960s with the American counterculture and New Age movements . Much of Gibran 's writings seems based on Christianity but his mysticism reveals a convergence of several other influences as well including Islam Sufism Hinduism and theosophy . To illustrate the relativistic nature of Gibran 's theology the Prophet says Say not ` I have found the truth ' but rather ` I have found a truth . ' Jesus said You shall know THE truth John 832 and I am the way THE truth and the life John 146 . Gibran followed The Prophet with The Garden of The Prophet which narrates Almustafa 's discussions with nine disciples following his return after an intervening absence and was published posthumously in 1933 . Gibran had died in New York City NY on April 10 1931 the cause was determined to be cirrhosis of the liver and tuberculosis.I would never have gone out and purchased this book myself . However I have heard of it all my life . It is supposed to be a classic and a spiritual masterpiece so when I found it in my father 's library after his death I decided to keep it and read it . My reaction is Ugh . As far as I am concerned it is mostly pantheistic nonsense . Someone might say It 's all Greek to me but since I took two years of Greek in college if it were all Greek I might be able to make some sense of it . I 'll just say it 's all gobbletygook to me . The Chicago Post said that The Prophet brings to one 's ears the majestic rhythm of Ecclesiastes . Ecclesiastes I can understand The Prophet I do not ! This does n't mean that there 's nothing good in it . The ravings of a lunatic sometimes contain a kernel of truth . Even a broken clock is right twice a day . However there is nothing of value that might be gained from The Prophet which ca n't be learned a whole lot better by simply reading the Bible . Besides ten of the twelve fullpage drawings by the author are rather immodest and consist solely of nude figures . Of course this is not surprising when you read what the Prophet says about clothes . Your clothes conceal much of your beauty yet they hide not the unbeautiful . And though you seek in garments the freedom of privacy you may find in them a harness and a chain . Would that you could meet the sun and the wind with more of your skin and less of your raiment . Oh by the way even as simply poetry it just does n't do anything for me . It is not a book that I would recommend to anyone under any circumstances . ",0
"Book offers amazing Philosphy and at the same time delivers perspective on any thing life . The Prophet is a must read . ",4
"My mother read this book a long time ago and recommended it to me but I never read it . I just recentlyu read in June 2006 and glad I finally did . This book short essays on the different aspects of life . These are teachings and they are meant to inspire and advise . They are written in such a way so that the words are not rammed down your throat . ",4
"Just reread The Prophet for the umpteenth time . Still love it and its insights into many issues . Great quotable texts . Everyone should read this and reflectnot the same as agreeingon what Gibran says . ",4
"Not to be confused with THE good Book . Typical eastern philosophy and good food for thought . I liked this book . I thought it was inspiring . ",4
"I 've been a fan of this wonderful book since my college days back in the dark ages . It contains many wonderful thoughts that will always inspire . ",4
"This book could easily be a text for religious and non religious people to live by . Great remarks on death love life or anything.Check it out . ",4
"Khalil Gibran 's The Prophet is a truly awe inspiring work of prosaic poetry . Despite being a nativeborn Arabic speaker Gibran wrote The Prophet in English ensuring that his powerful words lost nothing in translation.The work 's 28 short chapters recount the words of a prophet as he leaves his home to depart on a new journey . The words that flow from the prophet 's mouth and onto the pages are philosophical and spiritual treatises on all aspects of life . Chapters discuss the range of human experiences and include discussions such as On Friendship On Pain and On Death . What unites the 28 chapters is Gibran 's thought provoking and probing literary style as Gibran 's prophet invokes his listeners to live life to the fullest . The book is not overtly religious but every word and sentence is filled with a spiritual clarity.The book is eminently quotable with every chapter providing a nugget of truth worthy of repeating . Amazingly Gibran packs his masterpiece into less than 100 pages making it a very quick and easy read . Readers will find themselves returning to The Prophet again and again to recapture the beauty of Gibran 's words.The Prophet which Gibran himself recognized as his greatest masterpiece is a timeless literary classic . Its truth has touched generations of readers and will undoubtedly continue to do so . ",4
"I know Beryl Bainbrige is a great writer butthis was my first Bainbridge novel and I did n't enjoy it very much . Am I not getting it ? I have so many questions unanswered by this book . Why were Dr. Potter and Myrtle suffering through the Crimean war when they did n't have to be there ? Was it Myrtle 's utter devotion that kept her there ? Why was Potter there ? Were they camp followers ? Also did Myrtle bear Georgie and his wife 's children for them because the wife could n't ? Or am I dreaming ? There seems so much allusion in this book and I feel dumb for not getting what the other reviewers are getting from it . For me it was n't clear or easy to follow and I am not a stupid person . I 'm a bit disappointed but will try another book of hers and hope that I will enjoy it more.. ",2
"A reading of this book resembles a leafing through an album of old photographs dedicated to some unknown man named George Hardy . Each of the three narrators who were once connected and loved him though in different manner and degree shows two pictures and tells their prehistories . The image of Master Georgie as a respectable decent man turns into a central figure of such a weird sexual and family conundrum that it will take some time to perceive an affectionate son turns into a frigid father and lover a drunkard into a brave surgeon of the English army during the Crimean War etc . The book ends in horrible bloody scenes of the senseless war carnage . Ms Beryl Bainbridge does not give an opportunity for George Hardy to speak so we close the book but still do not understand who and what was George and why these three persons were so devoted to him . Just as in a real life people come and go we think we know them but we usually know only their external appearance and their essence remains a mystery ",3
"It 's difficult to know quite where to begin here in the face of such overwhelming praise from so many satisfied readers . It 's not that it 's badly written just that it fails to illuminate Master Georgie 's life . That after all should be its purpose particularly where as here that person existed and at least one of the events described took place . The author is content to conjure up others to act as prisms which would be a useful literary device if they illuminated the central figure but instead we see him through a glass darkly . I may be in a minority of one but it failed to live up to my expectations . ",1
"Master Georgie is a novel set in the time of the Crimean War . Through the eyes of three people close to Master Georgie Myrtle a girl believed to be Georgie 's sister Dr. Potter a geologist and Pompey Jones the photography assistant we follow him from Liverpool to the battlefield of the Crimean War.This way to write about a person and his happenings is well known through Ian Pears An Instance of the Fingerpost . And can be a perfect way to keep the readers interest and also the readers capability to live with the story . But Beryl Bainbridge do not master this art in this book . The language is too flat without feelings and the plots are sometimes too cryptical to be understood . I had to read several parts more than once to be able to understand what it all really was about and to understand which lenses where used.Still the book has some good parts among them are the battlefield scenes . And I also like the way Bainbridge use the meaning of the photography to let us see snapshots of Master Georgie 's life using other people as lenses as cameras.The book is a short one less than 200 pages and the surprising ending helps to give meaning to the story.Britt Arnhild Lindland ",2
"Historic fiction requires exceptional skills to capture character as well as time and place . Beryl Bainbridge 's Master Georgie certainly excels in this regard reminding me of the skills of Hilary Mantel . The plight of a Crimean War surgeon comes alive in all its gore and misery and insanity . The tale is told through the eyes of the surgeon 's brotherinlaw his off and on boyfriend and photographic assistant and Myrtle an orphan informally adopted by the family and mother of his children . The Crimean War offers a backdrop of incompetent diplomatic and military leadership dissolving into a nightmare of gore horror disease dysentery crime and cruelty . Bainbridge captures the disorganized international disaster with many horrible bloody details having her characters do the best they can to survive the catastrophe . Yet Bainbridge captures more than just history time place and character for her writing is poetic and her attention to detail is superb . Early in the novel Myrtle cleans the dog hair off of a tiger skin rug and as she pulls the white dog hairs from the brush they float like dandelion seed up the winddraft of the staircase and nestle on the chandelier . It is such details that make the book beautiful and horrible at the same time . The pace of the book is excellent and she moves the reader from critical chapter to chapter in the lives of the main characters . I almost think she wrote too little in this book . I would have loved to have the book twice as long . The character of Pompey Jones the bisexual street urchin is fascinating and I wish Bainbridge had written a novel just for this selfaware selfassured character to follow Master Georgie . Bainbridge actually focuses much of the novel on the character of Myrtle and we learn as much about her amazing strength of character as we do about that of her sometime lover George Hardy . Myrtle and Pompey are both orphans street wise highly intelligent and are recognized for their strengths by the Hardy family.George Hardy is never fully explained and made visible to the viewer for his motives are somewhat hidden . As a homosexual or bisexual physician from an upper class home it appears that his service in the Crimean is somewhat of a penance a sacrifice for his sexuality . He strives to be the perfect son to his father mother and siblings yet the secret of his sexuality means that a critical part of him must be hidden from his family . George Hardy appears to sacrifice himself during the Crimean War due to his sexual orientation over which he has no control . In some ways this is also a study of gay guilt in the Victorian period and the mechanisms and strategies undertaken to atone for an unacceptable sexual orientation . George is contrasted with Pompey who seems much more at home with his bisexuality recognizing it as more a part of himself and as an asset by which he can manipulate both men and women . The narrative of war is haunting reminding me of the outstanding novels of Pat Barker about World War I . We read of handsome shirtless soldiers dying from eating unwashed cherries or horses bleeding to death while standing with bullet holes through their body . It is the third narrator Dr. Potter George 's brotherinlaw that offers unique looks at all the other characters . Potter is intellectual and foolish at the same time . He lacks practicality but his power of observation is evident . Overall the book is excellent a postmodern masterpiece telling a complex tale from multiple points of view but never giving the ` definitive ' story behind the story . ",4
"I 'd heard so much about Bainbridgehow she has been nominated and overlooked for the Booker five timeshow her short novels are beloved by a cultish following . So I grabbed Master Georgie while on a business trip and buried myself in its atmosphere . I do n't think I 've read anyone like her . One of the reviewers here compared the experience to browsing through a collection of photos and that is true . Somewhat frustrating though is that as with aged photographs you never quite get the feeling that you know these characters or have their full stories . Maybe if Beryl Bainbridge were sitting alongside me to fill in the gaps . Nevertheless I 'm ready to plunge into another Bainbridge and am curious to know if anyone else has favorites . ",3
"The news of the death of Beryl Bainbridge last year made me want to read books by a very accomplished writer . In our book club we chose to read Master Georgie.This was a great disappointment . We should have asked for advice on what books to read . The book was nominated for the Booker prize in 1998 but did not win the award.While there is an interesting historical episode as the background and there were different viewpoints the reader never feels that this is a book that must be read . At times it seemed disjointed . There were narratives from different characters but that style did not feel the gaps . Different narratives normally means the reader gets an insight into an event from different perspectives . This did not happen.So need to read other books to appreciate the greatness of Beryl Bainbridge ",1
"I finished this book as fast as I could . I felt the author was on another wavelength to the reader . I did n't care that the story was about this Georgie fellow . He seemed peripheral and the written perspective on him oblique . The writing was good and I may try some other of the authors works but the plot was feeble . Try Pat McCabe 's breakfast on Pluto for energy and a raw story or Ian McEwan 's Amsterdam for a page turner with a plot of some interest . Thumbs down for this one . ",1
"In a revolving first person narrative three people who are close to George narrate the events of their midnineteenth century life . These narrations center around photographs taken at certain points . Through the course of the novel the idea of an image taken is made increasingly more complex as is the mystery of George who is most often portrayed idealistically as a man of high knowledge and wisdom . Through the carefully written language of the narrative there are surprisingly human incidents and facts revealed that are startlingly human . These are placed in the frame of the historical context leading to the war between England and Russia . The gruesome events of the war that follow strip each of the three characters of their pretence and leaves them yearning for the image of their lost ideal Master George . This is a fascinating experiment in looking at ways of perception the identities they fashion for people and the personal impact of assumptions about other people 's identities . ",3
"Geroge Hardy a surgeon and amateur photographer discovers his father dead in the bed of another woman and hastens to bring the body home before his mother learns of it . Three people help with this task and their lives are irrevocaly changed because of it.The story is told through the eyes of those three people close to Master Georige . The first is Myrtle a young orphan who is accepted and raised by the Hardy family . She immediately falls in love with Georgie a love that will carry her from the streets of Liverpool to the battlefields of the Crimean War . Next is Pompey Jones a young street boy who helps move the body of George 's father and then discovers George 's passion for young men . The last is Dr. Potter a family friend who follows George all the way to the Battle of Inkermann never understanding George 's aversion to women or why he wants to attach himself to a unit during the awful war . Through their eyes we watch George change from a young doctor in England dealing with his father 's troublesome death to the hardened field doctor trying to save lives during a time of war.This is a fantastic historical novel with some of the most descriptive war scenes I 've read in quite some time . Bainbridge makes you feel the confusion fear and dread that the soldiers faced both due to battle and due to disease . At the same time she shows how one life can effect others either for better or for worse . A highly engrossing novel . ",3
"I was attracted to this mesmerizing novel by its meditations on 19th century photography Victorian middleclass hypocrisy and the Crimean War . Photography binds this brief novel together and Bainbridge revels in its historical and metaphorical possibilities . She organizes her chapters around photographs which makes the reader immediately aware that shehe is to infer meaning from this practice and speculate on the role of photography in determing what and how we see and remember . Bainbridge is very sensitive to and aware of 19th century photography its use during the Crimean War the first war that photographs were taken of connection to both science and magic and the practice of postmortem photography . The reader does have to work to explore the themes suggested by the author but her historical grounding lucid prose and rich subject make the effort worthwhile . ",3
"Bainbridge is simply a genius.Master Georgie is a classic.An entralling readfull of off beat characters whose hope and dreams are tragically mistimed.Their miserable lives entwined poetically reaching a climax in a wasteful war . A brilliantly gripping ripping yarn of a story subtly and savagely told by a master . ",3
"A masterful evocation of a time and a war that took place 150 years ago and life 's little ironies that brought these characters together in the first place to determine their fate . ",4
"At first I was going to tick Beryl Bainbridge off for writing too well too literary . I thought it nonsense that an illiterate girl in nineteenth century Liverpool could never write such exquisite prose as evidenced in this novel and that this was a case of the authorial voice being too strong . As it happened I could n't have been more wrong . This novel is narrated by the close acquaintances of 'Master Georgie ' although some are closer than others starting with the illiterate Myrtle . Immediately we are drawn into the action as this sequence of a photograph being taken will resound throughout the novel . 'Master Georgie ' is incredibly subtle and it is only by looking back over it that you begin to appreciate that this is the most suitable of beginnings . Here is where Myrtle begins on her road to becoming a lady . And what an unsavory road it is as Myrtle 's help is initially required to cover up the manner in which George Hardy 's father has died and leads to the bloody battlefields of the Crimea . Also assisting with the coverup is the duckboy and street urchin Pompey Jones and the pompous Dr. Potter whose narrations are by far the best . George Hardy himself is an ambiguous figure seen only through the eyes of others . It may be a fault that we never really get to know him . This is a novel of cameras carnality and carnage . The dreadful shadow of history is cast upon it with the famous charge of the Light Brigade lightly alluded to . One almost expects to run into a lady with a lamp at every corner but fortunately Bainbridge avoids this excess . She takes events frozen in time such as the front cover 's photograph and brings them into life and death and maybe even beyond . The camera never lies Or does it ? Bainbridge fervently burrows into the psyche of characters enabling them to bring about apparitions vivid enough to be captured by film . In my mind 's eye I see Bainbridge pouring over ancient photographs from the Crimea trying to put names to faces and to see if she could walk around in their bloody shoes . She succeeds . If I 'd have been on 1998 's Booker panel I know I would have placed Bainbridge before McEwan . And the reason would n't have the desire to give her a consolatory but demeaning long service award . In this instance 'Master Georgie ' speaks for itself . ",3
"At first glance Master Georgie by Beryl Bainbridge suggests it might be quite a light book an easy read a period piece set in the midnineteenth century . This would be wrong . Master Georgie is no safe tale of country house manners of marriages imagined by confined embroidering young women . Beryl Bainbridge 's Master Georgie is anything but a tale of such saccharine gentility.Master Georgie is a surgeon and photographer and the book is cast in six plates photographic plates not chapters . Death figures throughout . From start to finish morbidity crashes into the lives of the book 's characters . We begin with Mr Moody dead in a brothel bed his host of minutes before in shock . Later we move to the Crimean War where the carnage is graphic extensive and apparently random . And even then individuals find their own personal ways of adding insult and injury to the suffering.The book uses multiple points of view . We see things Master Georgie 's way . Myrtle an orphan he takes in adds her perspective . The fussy geologist Dr Potter imprints his own version of reality . And still there are less than explained undercurrents undeclared motives which affect them all . Thus overall Master Georgie is a complex and ambitious novel . Though it is set in a major war the backdrop is never allowed to dominate . The characters experience the consequences of conflict and register their reactions but we are never led by the nose trough the history or the geography of the setting.But we also never really get to know these people . Myrtle perhaps has the strongest presence . She has a slightly jaundiced certainly pragmatic approach to life . But even she finds the privations of wartime tough . Why the characters of Master Georgie are all so keen to offer themselves as support for the war effort is an aspect of the book that never fully revealed itself . And ultimately this was my criticism of Beryl Bainbridge 's book . While the overall experience was both rewarding and not a little shocking I found there was insufficient delineation between the characters and their differing motives . The beauty of the prose however more than made up for any shortcoming . The language created the mixed world of midnineteenth century politeness and juxtaposed this with the visceral vulgarities of soldiering and the general struggle of life . This rendered Master Georgie a complex moving and quite beautiful book . ",3
"It is amazing how some writers can blather on for hundreds of pages and yet be barren of memorable phrase or image yet how a select few demonstrate the maxim of less is more . Beryl Bainbridge and her most recent novel Master Georgie surely fall into this latter category . Each chapter in this short 190 pages novel takes its title from a picture illustrating its contents . This is an effective technique as the photographic image provides both a jumpingoff point for Bainbridge 's particular scene and narrator the novel is given from several points of view and a framing device for the scene . I look forward to more of her fiction . ",3
"The back cover of this book praises Beryl Bainbridge for her deadpan prose and her emotionless sentences . It 's ironic how attibutes like these can possibly be descriptions of a good writer . It is these very faults that bring about the ruin of MASTER GEORGIE.The novel spans the years 18461854 . Master Georgie or George Hardy is the young son of a rich Liverpool merchant . He is a shadow figure in the sense that he never takes over the narration of the story . That is left up to three other characters . One of these is Myrtle an orphan who was taken in by the Hardys as a child and is deeply in love with George . She follows him in his restless wanderings of Liverpool . One night in a sordid episode they find George 's father dead in the bed of a prostitute . Along with another character who does narration Pompey Jones a street hustler they are able to cover up the scandal that would have hurt and tarnished his family . The three characters are bonded by this secret for the rest of their lives and as the novel progresses this deepens into love both sexual and spiritually . It becomes a love triangle which causes a lot of pain and little satisfaction . The last voice that enters into the picture is the eccentric Dr. Potter who has a hankering for George 's sister . Nobody likes the guy because instead of confronting life he dwells instead in books mainly the classical writers of Rome and Greece . When you start a conversation with him he begins quoting from an author instead of communicating sense to you . Towards the latter part of the book all the characters become involved in the Crimean War . Or actually George becomes involved in the war and wherever he is it sucks the others with him . Just like all wars this one changes the future of not just the combatants but also of the bystanders.The parts of the book set in Liverpool are quite good and interesting . They seem to be written with more passion and personal knowledge than the war scenes . The books problem lies in the deadpan writing . It 's like watching the stand up comedy of Steven Wright where a monotone voice is supposed to make you laugh by its very absence of emotion . It 's the same thing here . We are supposed to feel horror and love through understatement when neither of these emotions are capable of understatement . The closer I got to the end the more bored I got . I skipped over some pages to get to the end . I did n't care about the character 's fates . I just wanted to say i finished it . ",1
"Ms. Beryl Bainbridge writes Historical Fiction with as much skill as any writer and much better than others who attempt the genre . Her stories rarely have definitive separations between what actually happened and what might have happened to the characters she creates . The Crimean War is the setting this time and while historically noteworthy is not as familiar as some of her other subjects like The Titanic or the doomed Scott Expedition to the South Pole . What is consistent is her ability to jump about through time periods without ever losing credibility . Each of her books reads as if a unique pen is behind each one . The hand of course is the same however the moods created are remarkably singular.The character that is the book 's title is a complex human study or if you prefer a very intricate person but occupied with a mind and personality as muddled as it is diverse . A grotesque death scene is the entrance for one of the narrator 's of the book an individual that would have lived as a street urchin but for chance and an ambiguous bit of goodwill . A second street personality with many more wiles and flexible conduct also becomes a member of Master Georgie 's entourage . This second narrator has a unique view of events as he is close when Master Georgie requires for the latter 's sexuality is repressed at best . These are just two people who eventually head to the middle of The Crimean War and the question that keeps shadowing the reader is why ? Escape from the latter half of 19th century London is an easy answer for George but what of the others ? Taking a trip toward an impending war as George 's groupies is one matter staying in the midst of a war is much more puzzling . This is one of the most difficult of Ms. Bainbridge 's books that I have read . Previous works have often served as a metaphor for the time they occupy or the closing act in a World that is about to undergo great disruptive change . This work is not as apparently decisive.One characteristic is consistent and that is her master 's grasp of language . A lapful of cherries that serve as a metaphor will haunt a reader for some time . Her images of the dead and dying are less grotesquely graphic than most writers portray but are far more disturbing than other wartime battles . This may not be the best of her work if it is the first of hers you experience however if you can successfully decipher this one that are several others that are much more comfortable to read . ",3
"Clarence Larkin has a great way of communicating hard to understand passages . I have a friend who recommended him this spring . ",4
"This is a wonderful book to study with The Greatest Book on Dispensational Truth in the World by Clarence Larkin . ",4
"Clarence Larkin is the best interpreter of the Bible . His hand drawn charts and exceptional . I have all of his books and charts . ",4
"This book is well written and very organized . The author did an excellent job of explaining a complicated subject and I was surprised at how easy it was to read . It was so interesting and informative that could n't put the book down once I started to read it . I purchased four more books of different titles and read them with the same ease . It 's not that the subject is any easy read but it was so clearly explained and flowed very nicely as it untangled many questions that I had concerning prophecy . I purchased this title for a friend of mine and highly recommend this book to anyone interested in Bible prophecy . ",4
"Larkin published several books on Biblical studies.in the 1910 's and 20 's . Revelation has a constant narrative with a beginning middle and end . It is also one of the essential sacred texts and required reading for anyone interested in religion.This book is a great reference whether they are dispensationalists on not . Highly recommended reading . Thanks Amazon ",4
"A must read . One book of the bible that 's a mastery is Revelation and this book my be of great help . Pick it up and see what I mean . ",3
"This book by Clarence Larkin was given as a gift and I understand that the person who received it is very pleased with the teaching as it is presented clearly and precisely . It arrived when promised and I am very pleased with the condition and the packaging . ",4
"This is another wonderful book by Clarence Larkin . It was a gift for my husband since this is one of his favorite authors.He said it was an interesting and informative book . ",4
"I now know who the Anti Christ is . He perfectly fits what the scriptures have to say about him . It is to complicated to explain there but he stands ready right now to assume his role which tells me the rapture is imminent . When I saw that my heart skipped a beat . GET READY ! ! ! ! ",4
"Without a doubt IMHO this book has got to be one of the best ever done on the last book of the Bible and how those thing written there relate to other prophetic books of the Bible Especially the book of Daniel and history . It is beautifully written and has many detailed charts and pictures . What is really cool is to realize this book was done in the early 1900 's before The Jewish people went back home and reclaimed the land God promised them . I loved this book and it confirmed the truth found within the Bible . RMS ",4
"THANK YOU FOR BEING SO PROMPT IN SENDING MY BOOK . MY PASTOR IS ALWAYS GIVING US SOMETHING TO LOOK UP AND WITH MY BOOKS I AM ALWAYS READY TO SEARCH OUT THE ANSWERS . THANK YOU FOR MY BOOKS ALWAYS BEING IN GREAT SHAPE AND NICE AND CLEAN AND NO TORN PAGES OR THE BOOKS ALL MARKED UP . ",4
"I referred to this book a lot when I was teaching on the Book of Revelation . I would highly recommend this book if you want to study the end times . Very interesting and helpful . ",4
"How people can make these types of mistakes is beyond me . There appears to have been no editor or proofreading before putting this up for sale and apparently no quailty control measures on Amazon 's part . The problems1 . 4500 locations or 450 pages are missing . This ebook is 500 locations or 50 pages.2 . The reviews posted on the Kindle Store were clearly for the hard copy version3 . This book give a page or two outline of a topic . Example there is no information detailing the seven churches like in the hard copy version just a 2 page turn outline saying the Book of Revelations speaks about seven churches.4 . Complete information is just missing . The table of content looks consistent with the hard copy version yet once you spend $ 3.99 to buy it and click on a TOC link subtiles are not there.5 . This ebook is just a very brief overview of what is in the Book of Revelations and what is in Larkin 's actual book.I will be getting a refund from Amazon . ",0
"great book . clarence larkin does a great job with this book in explaining revelations and makes it easy to understand ",4
"I just recently started studing this book . I have enjoyed what I have read so far but I have too many other books going to really get the full benefit out of it . ",3
"Have n't really got to the content of it yet . However I love this big size book cover and the wide margins . Highlighter ready ! ",4
"Be advised this is a very deep book and should not be approached lightly . Though I believe every believer should own the book someone still on the milk of the Word of God will struggle with the deep things of God covered in this book . ",4
"This book is amazing . The charts really make it ! I am so happy to have this for a study guide . Thanks Amazon ! ",4
"AllThis is the version of this book that you want . An excellent book and good to get your thoughts going . ",4
"I got my first copy of this book back in 1961 . It was one of the first printed very old at that time and was in a scroll type layout . I have since bought three more over the years to give to friends . If you are interested in Bible study Give this a shotGREAT ",4
"Our purchase of this book is a repeatwe loaned ours and never received it backit 's that good ! The informational is according to the Bible and a timely resource . ",4
"Again received this prior to estimated delivery date . For those who are interested in a great analysis of Biblical Facts the charts in this are clear comprehensive and are an excellent way of following God 's Plan of the Ages . ",4
"This is a wonderful looking book I have not had a chance to start reading it however the drawings alone are beyond great . The book arrived within three days of ordering and the book is in great shape . ",4
"Good book in fact a great book taught me things that I never heard of before . Excellent book for seekers . Priced right it is one of my favorite books . I wish that the print were larger but it is dark so I can read it with glasses . It is not too large to carry in your purse to pull out and read in a waiting room .I am recommending it to any person who hungers to understand the Bible better ",4
"I must say this book is very deep it is not something you pick up and read all the way through at one sitting . If you get through a Chapter you are really very intelligent . This book is really heavy and I still have it on my nightstand . Read a couple of pages and put it down . It gives you much to think about mull over chew on it . Enjoy the light will eventually go on I hope ! Betty ",4
"I have read hundreds of books explaining different aspect of the bible for over 20 years but this is the best one yet . It keeps to the bible and to the point . Clarence Larkins is amazing writer and his charts just add extra understanding to his work . This man was truly used of God for this book . ",4
"I find this a little difficult to follow but that could just be me . I would prefer more concise information . ",2
"ORDERED THIS BOOK FOR MY HUSBAND . HE WAS SO HAPPY TO RECEIVE IT AND HE SHOWED IT TO OUR PASTOR AND NOW HE WANTS ONE . I AM SO HAPPY TO BE ON THIS SITE . EVERYTIME I NEED SOMETHING I COME TO THIS SITE AND I CAN ALWAYS FIND WHAT I AM LOOKING FOR . THANK YOU . IT COMES IN GREAT SHAPE AND ALWAYS ARRIVE IN GOOD CONIDITION . ",4
"This book is an excellent book to read in addition to the Bible . If you have some knowledge of the Bible you will find this book offers some additional insight that is not in other commentaries . This author is an inspiration to me to dig deeper in the word of God . Because it is written in 1929 do not let that cause you to think it is old school and outdated . It is not ! I am still reading it as it is too much information to ingest in a couple days . The book starts off with an explanation that the Bible was written for all classes of people and for our learning and the Bible is not addressed to all people in general . Part of the Bible is to addressed to the Jews Gentiles and to the Church which consititute the three classes . Mr. Larkin gives his explanation of the ages and dispensations . He continues on to explain the age of the earth that in Gen 1331 was the restoration of the earth to its original condition before it was made formless and void and submerged in water and darkness and how there is millenniums of time that science may require for the formation of the earth as a planet . His teachings throughout the book are thoughtprovoking and shed some light on questions I have had such as election and freewill Heaven and Hell Judiaism and Christianity . It is 328 pages of Biblical explanations and charts . I definitely find this a must read . ",4
"ISBN 0394826922 I 'd already read and reviewedI 'll Teach My Dog a Lot of Words Bright & Early Board BooksTMwhen this the unabridged version fell into my lap . While I think the shorter abridged version is a great introduction this is what you want those little readers building up to ! A young faceless pet owner plans to teach his dog 100 words impressing the entire town including the mayor . Simple words like walk and beg are only the beginning of the plan . He also intends to teach him stand on Uncle Abner 's thumb and paint the road from here to there Plans however are one thing getting started is quite another.Author Michael Firth is fantastic as usual with simple language made extraordinarily fun . P. D. Eastman 's illustrations are perfect they 're fun and funny and complement the text . Kids will laugh and learn and that to be honest is who we 're really interested in teaching ! AnnaLovesBooks ",4
"This is a classic . Funny lines great rhymes and rhythm engaging pictures and an appealing main character . If a parent loves to read it as much as a toddler loves to hear it that 's the sign of a great book . ",4
"I enjoy reading these books with my 2YO . The words are short the illustrations are entertaining and the story does n't drag on to bore him . He is able to turn the pages and tell me the story by just looking at the pictures ! He is especially fascinated by the animals goose moose mouse pigand always giggles at kick the stone for whatever reason . Lol.I am completely happy with this purchase and would definitely recommend this as an addition to any toddler 's bookshelf ! If you do buy this and it 's a hit consider alsoGo Dog ! Go ! Are you my mother ? Big Dog Little Dog ",4
"A timeless classic my two year old loves . I appreciate these books so very greatly as unlike some other popular children 's books these include real words and objects so very refreshing ! ",4
"I did n't realize this was the children 's book in the Dr. Seuss series . I thought it was for adults . My mistake and I had to laugh at myself when I excitedly opened it up . I could n't teach my dog any new tricks ! ",0
"Beginning with The first six words I 'll teach my pup are 'dig a hole ' and 'fill it up . ' this book is absolutely hilarious . I had never heard of it before my son came along but it is one of his favorites and mine . It is whimiscal clever and just plain fun have a care do n't paint the mayor . The cadence and flow of the words are masterful.This nugget will surprise you . I hope you enjoy it . ",4
"This is a great kid 's book one of the best fake Dr. Seuss books in the Beginner 's Book series . The story is fast paced and funny and the words roll right off the page . Way cooler than Go Dog . Go ! Recommended ! ",4
"A delight for any young child this wonderful book is filled with bright and cheerful illustrations as well as fun rhyming.It is full of life and action in only 29 pages.It teaches small children the meaning of words as they are taught to the dog.Finally it teaches the meaning of procrastination as the owner of the dog with all his big dreams for his pet on the last page says & # 65533I think I & # 65533ll start next year & # 65533 ",4
"My kiddos never get tired of hearing this story . The illustrations are cute and the book is fun to read aloud . Great for bedtime or story time ! ",4
"I had this book for my children when they were small . My daughter who is in her 30s wanted me to order to read to the grandsons . ",4
"This is a cute book about all the words that the kid filled with ambitious enthusiasm wants to teach his dog . This incredible dog would dazzle and inspire even the mayor to say let 's make today a holiday ! Oh what an endeavor this will be ! ",4
"My grandson will like the idea that he could teach his dog some words . He will probably try to do just that . ",3
"I loved this book as a child and now I love it for my own daughter.I have vivid memories of a time when I could just newly read and barely count staying up well past my bedtime writing down all the words that were new to the dog i.e . not counting a more than once and trying to count them to see if the book really had 100 words it did ! . It was that engaging . I remember it took me hours and then when my mom caught me still awake I lied and told her I had just woken up.The point in that is that as a small child I found this book so intriguing that I was reading writing and counting for fun well past my bedtime . As an adult I love the wit . As a parent I love that I get to share the childlike love for it all over again.This is such a fun book with real learning potential too . Love it . ",4
"I read this book to my children when they were young and now am reading it to my grandchildren . It 's one of their favorites as it was my own childrens ' . Even after 30 years I still remember most of the book I read it so often ! ",4
"ESPECIALLY good for those beginners who are inspired to read about dogs ! The kid I work with loved it and we had a lot of fun with it . ",4
"for getting your kid introduced to hisher ABC 's . I also have the Berenstain Bear 's A Book and C Book . My kids love the funny pictures and topical sentences . ",4
"This Book is funny and is full of B words like big brown bear blue bull beautiful baboon . Another B phrase is added each time so by the end it 's a long phrase . There is a surprise at the end for a sad Baby Bird . my daughter dictated that paragraphThis is n't Berenstain Bear family book with Mama Papa Sister and Brother but is a celebration of an important letter . It 's fun to read out loud with a swingy feel to it . ",2
"A favorite Berenstain book of my children I was happy to find it for my grandson . ",4
"This book is quite funny . Especially when you read it fast as I 'm always requested to do . How fast can you read big brown bear blue babboon beautiful babboon blowing bubbles biking backward bump black bug 's banana boxes And and it goes from there ! It 's really fun to read aloud and plus it 's easy for little ones to memorize . A very cute book and a very easy way to teach the letter ' b ' . Great book ours gets taken to bed ! ",4
"Teaching the next generation to love books ! My grandson is really enjoying this book . It was as funny this time as with my children . ",4
"My family discovered this book when my younger brother was the age for picture books and we all loved it . In fact we can still quote it by heart.The book is really just a list of things that start with the letter B but the Berenstains have managed to create a story that 's a lot of fun with it . We follow the results when a bear a bull and a baboon blow bubbles and bike backwards . What happens ? Well they bump into all kinds of things . And the more they bump the more absurd the book gets and the more fun it truly is.As I said we all loved this book . It was clever and charming and so out there you ca n't help but laugh at it . Each page pretty much repeats what came before while adding a new layer to the chaos . And the illustrations capture what is happening perfectly.This is a true classic picture book . If you can find a copy you 're family will love it . ",4
"We bought this after our daughter loved the ' A ' book so much . It was a great title for a learning reader and it 's simple vocabulary and engaging illustrations made us regret that the series stopped with 'the C book ' . ",2
"I read this book to my children 35 & 38 years ago and they loved it . My new 14 month old grandson loves it as well bringing it to read to him many times a day . Alliterative and repetitive when read with expression it is great fun for us all . I think it is out of print so I was delighted to find this . ",4
"During the night my little boy tipped over his toy bin and used it to scale his bookshelves . This morning there were a pile of about twenty books on the floor and he wanted me to read every one of them . For the most part he would lose interest after a page or two but a few he listened to right until the end . Those books deserve a writeup.That he listened all the way through The Berenstains ' B Book surprised me . I did lose interest after about the fourth page but he was loving all those Bs so I read it to the end . This is a silly little book which not shockingly emphasizes the letter B . It becomes quite a tricky tonguetwister long before you reach the end of the book . I could n't really tell you what specifically my threeyearold liked about the book but he did really enjoy it.The illustrations feature the funnelsnouted animals of the Berenstains cute and colorful but not easily recognizable and therefore not my favorite style . Again my little boy liked all the silly images and colors even if he did n't believe me that the bear was supposed to be a bear . ",3
"This is one of the best first readers to start your little ones ' library with . I read this so many times to my kids that I knew it by heart . It is a FUN..way to share time with your little loved ones . ",4
"The text consists of words beginning with B with a minimum of any other words . This is a great idea for teaching beginning readers and I wish there were more books like this.The illustrations are cute and the the story is funny . In other words it 's by the Berenstains.If you like the Berenstains and if you like picture books with alliterative text then you have two good reasons to try C is for Clown 0001714422 . ",4
"I remember this beloved book from when I was a child and first learning to read . I loved it then as I do now . I recently bought a replacement copy FOR MYSELF as my children misplaced it somewhere along the way . My lady asked me for whom I was purchasing the book and I responded truthfully Me . Got ta love the Berenstain Bears ! I do and I 'm 47 ! I find myself often reciting the book whenever I 'm feeling the need for a little lift of my mood and a spontaneous smile . Indulge yourself and any little ones in your life . You wo n't regret owning this classic . ",4
"This book is so cute and so much fun ! We borrowed this book from our local library and then I just had to own it . My kids did n't want to return it to the library . The story line is so cute and it rhymes too which gives it a fun rhythmic sound as you read it aloud . Great book ! ",4
"Awkward cadence lacks the usual old school Berenstain Bear charm I despise the newer preachy books but expected this one to be up there with the great The Bear 's Picnic . The illustrations might be worth half a star but it 's truly so dreadful I ca n't bring myself to go over a single star . ",0
"This book was a used book which was in excellent condition was very please with this purchase kids love these books . ",3
"The Berenstain Bears on the Moon by Stan and Jan Berenstain is one of the best in the authors ' excellent series of children 's books . In this installment Brother and Sister Bear accompanied by their excitable pet dog take a rocket trip to the moon and back.Although the book 's primary purpose is entertainment and literacy education the Berenstains do get some of the science right . The portray the gravityfree environment of the space ship 's interior during the voyage and they also show that the gravity on the lunar surface is much less than that on Earth.The book is illustrated in the typically appealing Berenstain Bears style . Particularly fun is the orange green and purplecolored rocket ship used by the intrepid space travelers . And the rhymes are equally fun . Example Two little bears and one little pup . They are off to the moon going up up up ! This irresistible adventure tale is definitely a high point in a beloved book series . ",4
"I love the Berenstain Bears but this book stinks . This is the only book of theirs that I rank low . I grew up with the Berenstein Bear 's books and love their illustrations and messages but this one lacks in content and craftsmanship . Buy every other Berenstein Bear book out there but skip this one . ",1
"Although Amazon advertises this book for ages 48 my wife and I started reading this and other Stan and Jan Berenstain books to our children from 18 months and up . Always a delight our kids would laugh at the silliness while learning a lesson about life . We started a great habit of reading two or three books before bed and the kids loved them . Soon they would memorize many of the phrases beginning a lifelong passion for reading.Every kid should experience reading books by the Berenstains while growing up . The characters are well developed the rhyming phrases help kids become enthusiastic about reading and the messages about life make them think . Bears On The Moon got my son and daughter asking questions about space and interested in the great beyond . Combine this with other fun Berenstain Bear books and your kids will sit enthralled as you turn the pages . Highly recommended . ",4
"Another one of the Berenstain Bears Early Readers.It 's a lot of fun to read and the rhymes work well . Very bouncy . I do have to suspend the disbelief of even the kidlets a little they know full well that two children and a dog can not go to the moon alone ! but that 's all right . ",3
"It is a wonderful story to tell and I am sure it is loosely written on fact vs. fiction . But I found it dragged on and on and just lost interest until I finally I had to put it down unfinished . I do n't do that very often . ",2
"A beautiful book . So wonderfully written that savoring the words was a joy never mind the sensitive yet powerful story . Though the topics deafness World War One suggest a very grim work it ends up being a powerful affirmation of life.This book deserves to be much more widely known than it is it 's an excellent example of how even good books deserve ample promotion as I think that it 's a lot better than some major recent bestsellers . I was pleased to see in a bookstore recently that it 's won an award . ",4
"This is a wonderful first novel about sound silence deafness communication and love . Grania is a young girl who loses her hearing at the age of five . Her guiltridden mother refuses to accept that she is deaf and resists adapting to reality only Grania 's loving grandmother saves her from a life of illiteracy and loneliness . Grania is taught to read with The Sunday Book a precious gift from her grandmother that becomes a metaphor for life 's struggles and complications as Grania emerges from childhood attends school and meets Chim a hearing man who loves her stillness . Just married Grania must return home to wait while Jim goes to war as a stretcher bearer.Once again WWI emerges as incredibly pointless and bloody as men are thrown into the confusion of the European front . Jim experiences the war as a haze of brutal sound . He steels himself to the sight of mutilated men blown apart but can not stand the sight of their hands which of course for him had become the instruments of his personal language of love with Grania . Meanwhile at home a beloved friend from Grania 's childhood who became her sister 's husband returns home mute from a horror no one can imagine . Drawing on the foundation of love from her grandmother the deaf Grania not only coaches him back to speech but heals her sister as well . The end of the novel feels tantalizingly like only the beginning for these wonderful multidimensional characters.Itani is a wonderful writer and manages to convey to those of us who hear what it 's like not to be able toshe also shows what we the hearing might be missing ! The background on the theories of language and teaching the deaf was fascinating and Itani must have done some meticulous research . This is a wonderful novel well worth your time . ",4
"The first part of this novel was a superb 99 pages . My enjoyment of these 99 pages is what makes this a three star book despite the fact I grew too bored to finish somewhere in the middle of part three . Here is whyPart one is about a child named Grania growing up in Canada in the late 1800 's . A bout with scarlet fever at the age of 5 has rendered her permanently deaf . Thankfully Grania has an understanding family especially her grandmother and with their patience she learns to lip read . I know from my own experience lip reading is not an easy task and this book shows us just how difficult it is . Grania struggles to see words understand words and even feel words . Readers will feel her frustration her fears and her shame at times . When she begins school we see how the deaf are treated by the hearing people with less than kind hearts . The teacher does not want to take time out of her already busy day to ensure Grania understands what is going on . The children like to laugh at her and play games that humilate her . Most upsetting of all is the ignorant assumption that deaf means dumb . When Grania is sent to a deaf school to learn lip reading and sign language we see another world . It is a world of silence yet friendships build and minds expand.Part two is about an adult Grania who falls in love with a hearing man named Jim . Jim is a nice fellow but he does not hold my interest . I found his conversations with Grania dull and their romance a bit sappy . My mind began to wander.Part three follows Jim as he enters World War One and the fighting he experiences or sees . This created a problem for me as I said earlier Jim just did n't hold my interest.Part one seemed a novel all of its own . The style changed after that . I realize the story is about Grania and Jim and World War One but it just was not written the same as part one . I encourage people searching for deaf fiction and literature to pick this one up tho . ",2
"Set in the early decades of the 20th century through World War I in Onatrio Canada and France Deafening is two stories the coming of age of young Grania struck totally deaf by scarlet fever at the age of 5 and what 's like living with deafness the second story the experience of her husband Jim in World War II France where most do n't survive the battlefield and what it 's like for Grania and the other families back home.A multilayered story filled with the harsh realities of the world of the deaf and the world of the battlefield and the compassion love and strength of the human spirit to overcome . Itani is a wonderful writer who gets inside each of these worlds and let the reader have his and her own experience . We become involved in the lives of her characters and we feel their joys and sorrows . ",4
"I wanted to like this book but I expected a lot and found it a disappointment . The first half about Grania 's struggles with learning how to communicate and trying to fit in with her family and friends was interesting and new perspective even though a bit slow at times and not always that compelling . As far as the second half I have read other books that have dealt with the horrors of WWI and this one offered not one new perspective or new point of view or descriptions . I did n't see how it added to the story at all and at this point in the book I really wished I was n't reading it but I guess some part of me wanted to find out what happened and I felt that the ending was a let down . Mostly I feel that this topic could have been really really engrossing new and compelling but the book 's lackluster plot and storytelling left me flat . I wo n't recommend this book . ",2
"In this sensitive portrayal of love and war author Itani reveals the life of Grania O'Neill from her earliest days in Deseronto Canada through her marriage to Jim Lloyd who serves in the Ambulance Corps during World War I. Grania has been deaf since the age of five and Itani opens her inner world to the reader using Grania 's voice to tell the story and gracefully conveying her deafness as part of her selfhood not as a handicap . Using short sentences of twelve to fifteen words when Grania is a young child trying to figure out her world Itani begins the story in a simple subjectverbobject pattern using no complicated clauses or involved syntax which Grania herself would be incapable of using . When Grania becomes fluent in sign language and lipreading the sentence structure becomes more complex . By the time she marries Jim a hearing man sentences and syntax are fully developed and Grania 's ability to recognize ambiguity to see relationships between events and to respond fully to a hearing world are obvious in her voice.The point of view alternates between Grania and Jim once Jim goes off to war and important themeswar and peace life and death love and friendship and strength and dependenceweave and develop throughout their contrasting worlds Grania at home and Jim at the front in Belgium . Itani develops these ageold themes in new ways sensitively incorporating them with the imagery of sounds and silence sight and shadows action and inaction images we have come to associate with the life Grania and Jim share . In Jim 's traumatic world sound becomes overwhelming pounding guns explosions screams of agony from wounded soldiers . As a result of his life with Grania however he is also acutely sensitive to what he sees discovering ironically that it is the hands of the dead and dying that communicate most vividly because they revealed the final argument clenched in anger relaxed in acquiescence seized in a posture of surprise or forgiveness.The subordinate characters further flesh out the themes . The friendship and interdependence of Jim and Irish his best friend parallel the love and support Grania has received from her sister her remarkable grandmother and her deaf friends . Grania gains strength through them and is able to give support and strength to others when they need her just as Jim gains strength from his relationship with Irish and continues to rescue the wounded and dying . As the reader comes to know Grania and Jim and the love they feel for each other Grania 's silent but active world becomes more and more understandable to the reader . Ultimately the reader has to agree with Grania when she declares ironically Sound is always more important to the hearing . Mary Whipple ",3
"The title may be Deafening but the book is anything but . It 's very quiettoo quiet . As we try to inhabit the life and mind of Grania deaf since the age of five from scarlet fever we imagine what it would be like not to know when someone is approaching from behind or to know when the speaker has changed in a conversation . This book was just too slowpaced for me and the characters too onedimensional . Grania and her hearing husband Jim seem to be without fault . More complex is Grania 's sister Tress who struggles with her emotions when her husband comes back from WWI disfigured and dysfunctional . Another interesting character is their mother who postpones sending Grania to a school for the deaf as long as possible while she battles her guilt over Grania 's hearing loss and seeks a cure via specialists and spiritual quests . However the author does n't fully explore the inner conflicts of Tress or her mother and we are left with a love story between two very nice people . Jim 's story is more disturbing than Grania 's actually as he becomes a stretcher bearer during the war and sees both friends and patients blown up inches away from him on a regular basis . His sections of the book are very moving reminders that the lives lost in wars are not just statistics . The most moving and ironic incident is Jim 's wordless interaction with a German counterpart as they both struggle to rescue their wounded on the battlefield . ",2
"This is my surprise book of the year . It was a gift and I did n't quite know what to expect but it 's turned into a real winner.Spanning the years from 1902 till the end of WWI we follow the life of Grania a childwoman who became deaf following scarlet fever . From a loving middleclass family she went to a boarding school for hundreds and hundreds of deaf children grew into a selfsufficient young woman became a nurse and married a hearing man Jim . He went off to war as did her childhood friend and brotherinlaw Kenan . Improbably for that Great War both men returned but in very different conditions.Divided into several parts the early chapters are Grania 's education learning to live as a deaf person in the world of the hearing . The next part is Jim 's story of his war experience.Then comes Grania 's ultimately successful efforts to return the power of speech to her mute and traumatized childhood friend . And finally the resolution of all the stories.This book grows on you . One of the boldest risks author Itani took was to try successfully to convey Grania 's silent world to readers and to imitate the understanding of sign language as well as lip reading for those of us unfamiliar with the Deaf World.It 's a stunning and powerful book showing the power of Story to convey love union and understanding and ultimately joy . ",4
"I really enjoyed The Deafening . I read it after reading another book by Itani which I really enjoyed . Like most Americans I do n't know as much about Canada as I should . The novel grabbed my attention at the beginning and held it to the end . It also made me feel so lucky that I have my hearing . The scenes of the hardships of the men fighting WW1 were difficult to read but that is war and I think it is something we all should think about . ",3
"A great novel ! This book by Francis Itani revolves around the world of a girlwoman who as acquired deafness through childhood illness . The setting is initially in Ontario Canada in the late 1800 's and then eventually alternating between Ontario and the European theater of World War I.I must admit I had some difficultly getting into this work but I persevered and I 'm glad I did because this book is truly a magnificent read . Once committed I could barely stand to put the book down.As with all great books what makes this book special is the quality of the writing . The prose just seemed to flow effortlessly off the pages as time melted away . You learn things about deafness quietness and darkness that you never really noticed before you begin to appreciate what people without hearing have to endure to get through an hour a day or a lifetime . There were a couple of occasions in this book where I was taken aback with a new revelation regarding deafness where I would just let this book slip to my lap and think about what I 'd just read.There are parts in this book that are not for the faint of heart some of the description of the trench warfare in France and Belgium are very graphic and disturbing . but most likely accurateAll in all a story that is quietly beautiful and at the same time beautifully sad . Really one of my favorite books . If I had to compare it to another book for quality beauty and heartrending appeal then I 'd pick Charles Frazier 's Cold Mountain . Both books have that intangible timeless aura to them that separate them from their peers.Highly recommended ! ",4
"Canadian author Frances Itani had a promising idea to write about the education and early life of a girl struck deaf in infancy as her own grandmother was at the turn of the last century . And it was an intriguing one to contrast her silent world with the cacophony of the western front in World War I . The novel that results contains interesting characters and effective passages but it is too diffuse to really work.Grania O'Neill the name is an anglicization of the Irish for love loses her hearing at the age of five as a result of scarlet fever . She wakens to a world shaped and contained by words but where language is deceptive and words have to be agonizingly relearned . She has an ally in her grandmother Mamo the relationship between the two is the most lovely thing in the book . But I found the early chapters repetitive and could never enter fully into Grania 's world . I was more interested in the relatively brief section dealing with her time at a special boarding school and the battle between the two theories of education for the deaf sign language and the oral method.As a young adult Grania falls in love and marries . But it is 1915 and her husband Jim goes off to war as a medical orderly . The unusual perspective makes some of the war writing quite powerful occasionally approaching the intensity of classics such as Sebastian Faulks'BIRDSONG . And the scenes back in Canada show something even less often written about a picture of wartime life on the home front . But the fact remains that there is an ocean between Grania and Jim and their parallel stories barely connect . Still a few touching episodes do manage to bridge the gap as when one of their friends returns wounded and mute and Grania teaches him once more to talk.This is a book that needed to dwell in language and sound and above all in silence . It calls for an almost abstract style that can handle ideas and sensations rather than events poetry rather than prose . The steady narrative that Itani offers contains much that will interest and even move its readers but for this reader at least the most exciting promises are lost . ",2
"It is only March and I have already voted this book for my Book of the Year Award which I normally select toward the end of the year . This book was beautifully written . You could see the human emotions coming through the characters and it made me want to keep turning the pages to see what was going to happen . You feel both sorrow and joy in the characters . Frances Itani knows the human heart and displays it so well on paper . Great job ! I am going to make this book a part of my permanent library . ",4
"The true test of an author is the ability to portray the mind of someone else . Recently that ability has been stretched by writers who describe the abnormal . The young autistic Christopher in Curious Incident is the prime example . Frances Itani takes us into a different world that of the deaf . It 's a world of endless confusion . There are sounds so easy to the hearing but meaningless to the deaf . We think speech is the only important sound but talk is hurried undirected and indistinct . Nature produces her own sounds which we use in speech but for which there 's no meaning to the deaf . Through Grania O'Brien 's early life Itani strives to introduce us to that world . Does she succeed ? Grania who would have been Grainne in her ancestral Ireland lives in smalltown Ontario as the story opens . Deafened by scarlet fever remember that ? she 's coached by Mamo her grandmother . Blessed with a quick eye for lipreading Grania is given a book with words displayed as rope . The rope of course becomes highly symbolic as the book progresses but Grania begins to equate the shapes with meaning . Mamo strains to have the girl equate printed words with proper sounds . It 's important that Grania blend in with the rest of the community . With her parents running a hotel Grania 's only other tie is with her sister Tress with whom she develops a secret sign language.All of Mamo 's dedicated effort nor trips to sacred shrines ca n't force the pace . Grania is to leave home for a Deaf School . Itani portrays the school as staffed with immensely caring ladies . No Dickens intrudes with harsh discipline or abuse but the school draws children from across the Province . All the children remain in school until the summer holidays . Sign language is discouraged for those who can speak dividing the children some of whom are mute . Itani passes rapidly over Grania 's progress in the school . The deaf girl however manages to shed some of her fear of the dark a longheld terror.Meeting a young aide in a hospital after leaving the school Grania 's life takes a new turn . The courtship is but a moment in the story the wedding description not even related until much later in the book . Instead the Kaiser rudely intrudes on their lives with the invasion of Belgium . Itani carefully rejects any political discussion in the narrative . King and Country Britain not Canada are under threat and Jim must sign up . There 's no family discussion no question of how Irish immigrants in a far land should react Jim crosses the Atlantic . There 's a training stint then Jim finds himself in the thick of battle . When time and circumstances permit letters are scribbled in muddy trenches . Sometimes Grania 's reach Jim but delays in the exchanges make communication a flimsy thread.Itani makes a splendid effort to depict the impact of the Great War . Confronted as we are today by daily images of conflict Itani still manages to impart a special sense of horror at events . The years pass with Jim a stretcherbearer braving the bombardments and fusillades of machinegun fire without being able to fight back . He carries wounded tends their injuries dodges fire and grows increasingly introspective . Never once does he question the worth of the conflict . At home in Desoronto Grania watches the causality lists the statistics of insanity lengthen while she worries . Soldier 's wives need more visibility and Itani 's effort is commendable.This book cries out for a sequel . Grania 's life hardly ends with the Armistice . With the end of the War her deafness remains the family is almost intact and a future must unroll . Itani has built a unique scenario with skillful prose . You will not find it easy to put this book down as you read . However when you do finish you will find the conclusion abrupt . Nothing is lost by that finale but there might be much gained by going on . stephen a. haines Ottawa Canada ",3
"If you are interested in what shaped Sir John Franklin before his abortive exploration in the Arctic McGoogan presents a tourdeforce portrait of his second wife Jane an indefatigable traveler and adventurer . I read this book for insights into 19th Century Tasmania and was not disappointed . Excerpts from letters and newspapers give a clear sense of public and private reflections on this colonial period well complimented by maps notes appendices and illustrations . ",4
"I have just finished McGoogan 's book about John Rae and his search for the northwest passage . Rae 's search also found the first proof that Franklin and his men had perished in the Arctic . Instead of gratitude Lady Fgranklin turned on Rae and this is the next book that sheds light on this enduring tragedy . It will be an other 'ca n't put it down book ' . ",4
"I ordered this book through one of Amazon Marketplace sellers as it was no longer offered by Amazon itself . While the book is in the shape I ordered it usedvery good I have not read it yet as I only just received it after ordering in it on 112610 . I received the book mid January 2011 . ",2
"A very indepth some think too indepth but I loved that look at a very amazing person in the context of an interesting time.Some of the best historical fiction I 've ever read . ",4
"This book though long chronicles an amazing lady for any historical period but especially Victorian times . Her wealth influence and encouragement made wonderful human rights progress in Tasmania formerly Van Diemen 's Land as well as in her native England . After her captain husband was deemed lost in his search for the Northwest Passage she spent over 20 years and millions of dollars searching for answers to what happened to him and his expedition . In the process she made significant progress and discoveries . A world traveller when most women rarely left there own local home areas Lady Franklin is an inspiration for the ages . The 'revenge ' refers not only to her quest to exonerate the false slandering of Lord Franklin 's good name and works but also her victory over a harsh environment of frozen waste . An amazing read of one amazing lady . ",4
"I just finished reading this book . It is interesting to me that many of the reviews focus on his chapter on Milk . I did n't take that much from that chapter but simply that the verdict is n't really out on Milk . I think he would have done better to address the question of raw or pasteurizedanother big subject of debate . But that logically must come from the belief first that milk is good for you and I did n't really feel that he made a decisive decision about it though he leaned more towards milk than away from it.There were several things I enjoyed about this book . I enjoyed learning a lot of nutritional historylike the history of vitamins and how different things in our food like canola oil were developed . There were also interesting chapters about various vitamins . I now finally understand why there are vitamins B6 and B12 but not B7 and B8 they were originally named and then discarded because people realized they had no nutritional value . There was a very interesting to me chapter about detox diets and the lack of scientific evidence that they do any good . In fact there is no evidence that there are health benefits to them.But the reason I have n't given it 4 or 5 stars is that the author leans heavily towards the opinion that chemicals in our food is just fine . Even given his scientific evidence I am not fully persuaded . Many of the things he talked about have n't been around for years so we do n't know their long term effects . It was just this year that several reports were published stating that artificial sweeteners are digested the same as regular sugar and do not contribute to weightloss . Which by the way I was very surprised that he did n't talk about Splenda at all but he did talk about other artificial sweeteners . I did notice after another reviewer mentioned it that studies are mentioned but not footnoted or identified in an appendix at the back of the book . ",2
"Although the premise of the book is sound to examine the accuracy of common food beliefs the work is unimpressive and completely unhelpful . There 's plenty of scientific research quoted but some of the nutrition information and conclusions about various foods is wrong or terribly misleading . No matter what your interest is in reading about food and nutrition you will be better served by skipping this book and opting for something else . ",1
"Near the end of the book Joe Schwarcz quotes Mark Twain 's famous maxim that It ai n't what you do n't know that gets you into trouble . It 's what you know for sure that just ai n't so . If some of the reviews for this book are any indication Dr. Joe was right scientific scrutiny is unlikely to change anyone 's mind . People continue to smoke people continue to eat mostly red meat etc . Those people who eat red meat and smoke are often willing to admit they are participating in unhealthy behaviour . So much more then is it difficult or impossible to convince people through the scientific literature that their preconceived notions are not correct when the topic is not something for which literally billions of people have served as experimental subjects through their normal activities . That is an observation that is mostly independent of the book 's qualities as prose and entertainment but it does identify the point from which this book starts.In a series of bitesized chapters 35 pages Schwarcz takes us through some of the topics he 's encountered and researched in his role as a science commentator over the last 30 ? years . As such I would suggest that the topics are a little skewed to the supplements side there are many chapters devoted to particular dietary supplements with supposedly miraculous effects to cure cancer lose weight etc.. These claims are usually laughably easy to dismiss because the evidence of their efficacy is nonexistent . The book is much more interesting when he tackles issues of pesticides teflon and artificial sweeteners . Generally the scientific literature shows that the amounts of these items in an average diet are so small as to be nonissues . Sure they cause cancer in amounts millions of times as large as humans take in . And these amounts are far less than the naturally occurring carcinogens that we are exposed to automatically because we breath and eat food . This leads to the primary thesis of the book with which no nutritional expert could argue eat a good balanced diet that emphasizes vegetables fruit and whole grains.This thesis is proven again and again throughout the book and the primary problem of this book is its repetative nature . In trying to keep each chapter reasonably autonomous and because the conclusions are virtually the same each time the author can not possibly make the book entertaining for long reading times . It 's more of a pick up read a bit put down for a couple days kind of book.Other reviewers have objected to the lack of footnotes . This is a valid criticism I suppose it was a conscious choice on the author 's and editor 's parts for ease of readability . Certainly I would have prefered if the studies he cites were more clearly referenced . Rise and Fall of the Third Reich had thousands of references so it 's insulting to think that the reader would pass on buying the book simply because they are in there especially as this book 's raison d'etre is to bring to the public the objective scientific conclusions on the nutritional questions raised in the book . I would add the criticism that two hotbutton nutritional issues are not dealt with . 1 BisphenolA a monomer used in polycarbonate synthesis has been banned by Health Canada and others but ruled safe in the amounts present in polycarbonate drinking and storage vessels by the FDA . Based on the number of articles I see in newspapers and even the American Chemical Society 's magazine this chemical is perfectly positioned for the Dr. Joe treatment and I find it curious that it is omitted . 2 Perhaps because this movement has only gained real traction since the book was written it was not included but the eat local mantra is in conflict with the eat lots of variety mantra espoused by nutritionists and featured prominently in the book . If you live in a breadbasket e.g . California you can have a widely varied diet throughout the year . If you live in a northern clime e.g . northern Minnesota most of Canada you will not have access to locally grown fresh fruit and veggies for most of the year . Eating as Dr. Schwarcz suggests would leave you with an enormous carbon footprint due to the transportation and refrigeration costs of moving the food from southern locations.It is also curious that Dr. Joe never mentions the placebo effect . Some remedies are effective because the patient thinks they will be effective . Sure doubleblind studies take this into account people receiving the placebo and the test compound are both going to benefit from the placebo effect so any additional effect in the test group will be due to the efficacy of the test compound but anecdotal evidence is easy to accumulate by charletons and these testamonials can certainly be true ! If you 're one of the lucky ones whose cancer goes into remission at the same time as you started drinking three litres of acai juice a day you will certainly know that the acai juice caused the remission . So it 's my unfortunate conclusion that Dr. Joe is singing to the choir with this book those with a scientificstatistical background will be convinced but we were convinced anyways . Those who are the statistical outliers will still be convinced of their positions and the charletans will continue to make money off of them . ",2
"Phew ! That was a lot to digest was n't it ? Those are the words author Joe Schwarcz uses at the conclusion of his book which is jampacked with the latest data debates and drama about the foods and chemicals & ltgasp ! > therein we eat . His book is indeed a fullcourse mealand then some.First he leads us through a tour of naturally occurring substances in our food supply including flax fiber omega3 fats antioxidants flavanols vitamins and minerals . Next he presents the most controversial issues related to the manipulation of our food supply fortifying with iron and fluoride sweetening with natural and artificial sweeteners manipulating genes in our food and preserving with sulphites viruses and radiation . Then he takes us up close and personal with the contaminants in our food supply including pesticides hormones BPA PCBs and dioxins . And finally Joe leads us through the nutritional hype surrounding some of the latest nutritional fads such as goji juice detoxing DHEA and green tea.It 's likely your head will be spinning after consuming all the nutritional chemistry controversy and and commentary that Joe serves up . And to answer his question above yes it is a lot to digest ! He does do an impressive job in guiding us through the maze of myths misconceptions and truths about the foods we eat butas food science is rarely a conclusive onebe prepared to be confused at times . Fortunately Joe offers relief at the end of the book to help us digest it allThere is more to life than worrying about every morsel of food we put into our mouths . What matters is the overall dietWhen you carefully scrutinize the scientific studies that are being rolled out almost on a daily basis most amount to no more than tinkering with the basic nutritional principles we have tried to lay down eat mostly foods based on vegetables fruits whole grains and lowfat dairy products and do n't overeat.Whew . ",3
"In An Apple a Day the McGill University professor Joe Schwarcz offers salient useful nutritional advice . Eat lots of fruits and vegetables . Meat is fine but make sure you have more whole grains on your plate . Emphasize variety and balance in your diet . Avoid processed foods especially those high in fat sugar and salt . Exercise . There are no miracle foods and short cuts to a healthy diet.That 's great advice that comes at page 353 of this 355page book . I have many issues with the structure of the book the main being Dr. Schwarcz 's decision to divide his book into easily digestible chapters tackling all the major food debates out there organic genetically modified detox and so on . It would have been a much better book if Dr. Schwarcz structured it around his main thesis that there are no short cuts to a healthy diet.Science has spent decades and billions of dollars analyzing the different components of food in the hope of distilling the magical qualities of apples and tomatoes and selling it in a bottle . There is no scientific basis for the overwhelming superiority of a certain vitamin chemical or nutritional supplement . Quite the opposite eating or drinking too much of a good thing can be a bad thing . Seeking balance moderation and variety in nutrition is the best and only path to good health . ",1
"Joe Schwarcz tells us what to eat and backs his advice up with the best and most verified lab results from all over the world . If you just love chemistry you 'll love this book but if you care about yourself you 'll find him a treasure chest of tips to live a long healthy time . ",4
"Most of us do n't know what to eat anymore with all the marketing out there this book touches on a lot of subjects I suppose it would be hard to go indepth and keep the book under 500 pages . I enjoyed it you can read it bit by bit and look for certain information or you can go cover to cover . An easy read . It does n't answer all my questions but at this point I do n't think anything will Also fast shipping and a great price . ",2
"Schwarcz is a Professor of Chemistry who has written several books about diet and nutrition . Judging by this book I 'm thinking he should stick to chemistry.I 'm not saying that Schwarcz 's dietary recommendations are bad . After you take away the discussions of chemical terms and processes you end up with the same sort of recommendations you 've been hearing about for decades Eat mostly foods based on vegetables fruits whole grains and lowfat dairy and do n't overeat . Hey is there ANY nutrition book out there that recommends eating mostly meat fat and sugar and overeating ? I majored in biology at college so I thought that a chemistryfocused discussion of nutrition would be interesting . I was wrong . I ca n't really fault Schwarcz for that because his book makes it clear that it will get into some chemistry and many of the chemicals in foods have long hard to pronounce names . But the subtitle to the book led me to believe that the chemistry discussion would be enlivened by learning about the myths misconceptions and truths about the foods we eat . Again I was wrong and this time I can fault Schwarcz . Schwarcz ends up recommending the same type of wholefood unprocessed diet as any mainstream diet book so I wonder just which myths and misconceptions he thinks he is addressing ? He recommends that meat should be an occasional treat and even then the portion size should cover a small portion of the plate . Those people who still believe in the myth that humans need to eat lots of meat would sooner barbecue Schwarcz 's book than read it . Regarding other myths and misconceptions Schwarcz is covering old welltrod ground . I suppose this book might be helpful to someone who has had his head in the nutritional sands for the past two decades.I ca n't forgive the chapter on milk . His discussion of calcium and osteoporosis is superficial at best . He does n't address any of the major risk factors for osteoporosis nor does he discuss the chemical processes underlying them nor effective countermeasures . He does n't offer a single study demonstrating that consuming dairy lowers the incidence of bone fractures which seems strange considering that this is the dairy industry 's number one claim to fame . Schwarcz does point to two studies which contradict his claim that milk is good for bones but he blatantly dismisses them . One study shows that Asians have a lower incidence of osteoporosis than Westerners even though they consume less dairy . Schwarcz responds by saying True enough but they also have a very different overall diet and lifestyle . He leaves it at that and he does n't bother to say what parts of the very different diet and lifestyle are healthier ! He then mentions the comprehensive Nurses ' Health Study which found that nurses who drank two or more glasses of milk a day actually broke more bones and had a higher risk of hip fractures . Schwarcz responds by subscribing to a hypothesis that the nurses who drank more milk were the ones who had the weakest bones to begin with ! I say hypothesis because he has no evidence for it . To make things worse Schwarcz goes out of his way to describe anyone who criticizes milk consumption as part of the antimilk lobby driven more by an irrational agenda than any objective analysis of the evidence . I eat moderate amounts of dairy for taste not health and I 'm not part of any antimilk lobby but does that mean I must believe that dairy foods are good for my bones ? Schwarcz says that when we look at the totality of the evidence an overwhelming number of studies show that bone strength improves with calcium intake and dairy products offer the best source of calcium . Schwarcz is linking dairy to calcium to bone strength which in effect means he is suggesting that dairy is good for bones . But again he does n't offer even one study which gives any evidence for this claim and instead shows us two studies which contradict it . Furthermore Schwarcz dismisses antimilk arguments that no other species except humans drink milk after weaning . He 's missing the entire point the objective and telling observation that all adult animals on earth thrive without milk . Schwarcz would have us believe as scientific gospel that human adults for special reasons he never explains need milk to thrive and prevent bone fractures except of course for those Asian human adults who have very different diets and lifestyles ! .This is the model of clear rational scientific thinking we 're supposed to follow as Publishers Weekly says that leaves readers with a rational framework for evaluating the complex nature of foods and how they affect health. ? I 'd say it 's a great example of a cloudy irrational and incomplete framework . In the end the best that Schwarcz can do is tell us that milk is not a poison as some fringe members of PETA might say.In conclusion Schwarcz did not bust any new myths or misconceptions and his recommendations are consistent with mainstream recommendations . You know the drill Eat mostly veggies fruits beans and whole grains do n't overeat engage in enjoyable physical activities get adequate rest . If you do all that do n't worry about whatever else you like to eat ! ",1
"I bought this book based on two 5 star customer reviews and because at the time it was 94th in books at amazon.ca . I 've purchased many books on nutrition from amazon . This is the only one I sent back.Coming from a Canadian author I was hoping to like this book but after reading the small section entitled Milk and Calcium I lost a lot of respect for this man as a nutrition authority.I think the author could have produced a better book if he 'd written in greater depth on fewer subjects the ones he was most knowledgeable on . Dairy foods are not one of these subjects and his bias in their favor is painfully obvious.He portrays the antidairy segment of our society as being primarily animal rights and vegetarian organizations and claims that independent researchers fall on the side of the dairy industry for milk 's health benefits.Do n't Drink Your Milk ! New Frightening Medical Facts About the World 's Most Overrated Nutrient While this book is dated the number of medical doctors recommending against consuming dairy products has continued to grow.He acknowledges that Milk stands accused of contributing to heart disease stroke breast cancer prostate cancer ovarian cancer diabetes allergies stomach cramps diarrhea autism mucus production and get this bone fractures ! He fails to acknowledge the theory that 's becoming more widely accepted within the nutritional science community for why cow 's milk may not be a positive contributing factor for bone health . That the milk proteins can contribute to an acidosis of the blood pulling calcium from the bones to maintain a stable pH level and negatively impacting calcium balance in the body . He continues But milk is also linked with reducing heart disease breast cancer colorectal cancer and of course bone fracture.The antimilk arguments often begin with the observation that no other species except humans drink milk after weaning . Again he neglects to mention the rest of the story . That in Nature no other species would ever consume the breast milk of another species regardless of stage of life . That 's hardly a compelling argument . No other species designs airplanes develops antibiotics or bakes bread either.He tries to refute the Nurse 's Health Study by suggesting that the nurses who were drinking the most milk were doing so not because they liked it but because they knew they had a genetic predisposition andor other risk factors for osteoporosis and believed consuming more cow 's milk would help them . So to his way of thinking drinking more milk was largely a reflection of an overall greater risk for developing osteoporosis in general and therefore milk should not be singled out and blamed for the increased incidence of hipfracture seen in the Nurse 's Health Study as the extra milk was possibly beneficial but just not beneficial enough to overcome the other risks in this selfselected subgroup . While the lead author of this study may lend some support for that hypothesis her coauthor Dr. Walter Willett does not.In this short chapter the author refers to the heavy environmental contamination of dairy as a trace of dioxin . He acknowledges that dairy fat is a problem but suggests we eat lowfat dairy and also limit saturated fat in our diets elsewhere.He does n't get into the tumorpromoting properties of casein the primary type of milk proteins . Likewise he stays right away from the whole raw milk issue or movement and the destruction of nutrients through pasteurization . There 's no discussion on grassfed as opposed to grainfed cows or any issues relating to factory farming . Although he does give brief mention to insulinlike growth factor.Most people who know anything about nutrition know that 2 % cow 's milk actually contains over 30 % of calories from fat . The dairy industry likes to mislead or deceive the public by measuring water weight rather than counting calories.This author pulls a similar stunt with calcium . He boasts A glass of milk contains about 300 milligrams of calcium a cup of yogurt 400 . By comparison the best vegetable source is broccoli with about 100 milligrams per cup.Of course he 's not only wrong about broccoli being the best vegetable source of calcium bok choy and kale are both significantly higher but he does n't bother to mention that a cup of broccoli contains only about a third the calories of a cup of milk and like other cruciferous vegetables broccoli has a far superior nutrientprofile . He does recommend broccoli in a different part of the book.There is some comic relief with the author 's explanation for why large segments of the world population are lactose intolerant . Apparently the human species evolved hand in hoof with the dairy cow . But centuries ago the tsetse fly spread sleeping sickness throughout much of Africa and Asia decimating cattle populations . So not having access to cow 's milk human populations over time lost much of their natural ability to make lactase the enzyme responsible for lactose digestion.While some primitive populations did thrive on diets containing some cow 's milk it 's important to make the distinction that what they consumed is a far cry from what is available to us at the grocery store . Derived largely from grainfed cows pumped up on growth hormone to increase milk production and antibiotics to ward off sickness inherent to the animal 's living conditions much of the already compromised nutrition in the milk is destroyed through pasteurization . And dairy fat today contains more dioxin and more environmental contaminates in general than any other food North Americans are likely to consume.The author claims that while milk may not be a miracle food it can contribute significantly to a healthy diet . It assuredly is not poison as suggested by the likes of PETA.Webster 's Dictionary defines poison as a substance that through it 's chemical action can injure or kill.It 's debatable whether cow 's milk as it 's generally produced today is actually poison but it most assuredly is as the Weston A . Price Foundation acknowledges crap ! While milk and calcium is admittedly a very very small portion of this book in my eyes the author has seriously undermined his credibility . Do I now trust or care what he says about fluoride added to tap water ? No ! Who do I trust ? If you want to know what the medical literature says about diet and health read Joel Fuhrman'sEat to Live The Revolutionary Formula for Fast and Sustained Weight Loss ",1
"Personally I did not find the characters compelling and the plot seemed made for a movie . Not what I am looking for in a book . ",1
"I am continually puzzled by the publishing industry 's prizes . This book takes up an astonishing amount of shelf space in book stores . Cover to cover there is nothing in it . It is like reading a cut and paste book . The characters are thin flavorless cliched sleepinducing . The same with the dialogue . I am still trying to determine what the author 's purpose was unless it was to bore us to tears those would be the only tears shed . I felt like it was written by an automaton someone who does not care about the craft of writing but thinks she is precious . There is no strength to the story or the sentences . I actually felt insulted by this drivel.Read The Deptford Trilogy by Robertson Davies . Now there is a circus story you wo n't forget . ",0
"If I could rate higher it would be 10 stars . The author did her research . The characters in this book seem so real . You will laugh you will cry you will feel hatred . You will cheer . You will be moved . ",4
"I really can not understand the bad reviews . This book is really good the research amazing and the descriptions put you right THERE in the hobo camps among the tracks the dirt poor workers and the wide broad differences between the performers and the grunts.I loved this book and the old mans ' musings.. the ending was so awesome..I would give this 10 stars if i could.. ",4
"A little book made for making a film I felt . A bit shallow and predictable . Characters unbelievable somehow . Not challenging in anyway . ",2
"Every once in a while you find a book that just ticks all the boxes . I enjoyed every page of Water for Elephants and was sad when I finished . A lovely story for young old and everyone in between . ",4
"This book was absolutely wonderful . Two chapters in I knew it was going to be one of my favorite books I have ever read.. and it is . I could not put this book down ! I definitely recommend it . ",4
"This book was a wonderful read throughout I have loaned it to many friends since and everyone has enjoyed it . I would highly recommend this book to all types of readers as this story appeals to many . ",4
"This story is one of the most entertaining I have ever read ! The author makes her characters come alive to the point where you feel they are family the good ones anyway . I love the style of writing she uses there is never a boring minute in this story about circus life . I would advise anyone who enjoys a story with animals and some very likable characters to get this book immediately ! This is one entry that will never be deleted from my Kindle ! ! ",4
"I can not begin to explain how much I have fallen in love with this novel . I 've never been so entertained intrigued horrified and ultimately satisfied by a book . Each character had so much to offer to the story . I slowed down as I neared the end knowing I had to say goodbye to Jacob Marlena and Rosie the smiling elephant ! . I will definitely go to the nearest bookstore and give Gruen 's earlier novels a try . This is by far the best book I have read in a long time . I am recommending it to everyone I know ! ! ",4
"I do n't typically buy books like this . I loved it . The story is unique and easy to become invested in . The characters are lovable from the very start . PLUS it 's just a very coherent read which is a huge bonus for me . I really ca n't imagine who would n't like it . ",4
"Fast moving and gripping novel . Historical details about circus life and live in general during the Great Depression are fascinating . You ca n't miss with this book . ",4
"The reviews were right this was exceptional ! ! ! What a truly eyeopening reveal of the way train circus life was for all those involved . I felt so many emotions all through the book and was certainly sad to have it end . A great 'read ' ! ! ! ",4
"This was the first ever book that i had read when i first got my kindle . To put it simply it a good nice read . The story line is nice the characters are well developed and have strong qualities . Really theres nothing i could put in words what this book mad me feel . Thats what i look for in a good book . How the story makes me feel how the characters an i respond emotionally towards on an other . When i read i feel as i the story comes to life . And thats what i got out of this book the story came to life so freely and beautifully and th characters showed so muh emotian so much heart that what really made it special . So do yourself a favor and read this book ",3
"Having heard mixed reviews on this book I was n't sure what to think but I found it to be an easy enjoyable read . I recommend this to anyone looking for an easy before bed book or an accompaniment to your summer travels . Great fun ! ",3
"I was n't sure about this book after some of the reviews etc . I guess the whole circus thing was n't of interest to me and so I put off buying this title for months . But last week I gave in when it was listed at a phenomenal price . And I have to say I loved it ! It is by far the best thing I have read on my Kindle . Exciting romantic adventurous and slightly sorrowful at times . The characters were unforgettable . I adore Jacob at age 21 and age 93 and he is a wonderful protagonist . This book is about circus life and the tragedy of a young man but it is a love story as well . It is also filled with creatures great and small . So would I recommend this ? Yes because Water For Elephants is fabulous . ",4
"If you have n't read this book you should definitely pick it up ! It 's definitely on the top 10 of my list ! It is a must read for everyone . I loved how Jacob found an opportunity in the mist of his grieving over his parents ' death . He completely turned his life around for the better . This book was not only a love story for me but it was a book of adventure . It had me sitting on the edge of my seat a few times during my read . I like how the book takes you back to Jacob 's past & present . The ending of the book was completely unexpected for me . I did not see it coming but it 's where Jacob belongs . I think you will have just as much fun reading this as I did . I could n't put the book down ! ! ",4
"Jacob 's life takes a drastic turn when his parents die . Stripped of everything he owns everything familiar to him all the comforts of his college and family life that he took for granted he leaves his old life behind jumps a train that turns out to be a circus train and enters a totally new different world . A circus is fun right ? Not behind the scenes in this book . Jacob a young adult naive still a virgin unused to such a hard life on the road confronts danger murder hatred love callous human viciousness more danger and finds friends and allies not all of them human in the unlikeliest of places.The story is told in turn by the nonogenarian Jacob now in a nursing home and at other times by the twentysomething Jacob working at the circus and trying not to get killed mostly at the hands of his fellowhumanassociates . Every chapter is an adventure held my attention and took turns gladdening saddening and surprising me.The circus animals also get into the act in this book and the author 's sensitive rendering and treatment of them makes them all the more vivid as supporting actors Circus employees and fellow participants in the intrigue and action.A masterful ending leaving the reader with hope glee and wonder . The very informative afterword by the author left me wanting to do my own research into this fascinating subject of the Circus . ",4
"What can I say ? I 'm not sure why I waited so long to finally read this book . From the prologue this book held my attention . Gruen 's writing style and attention to detail is simply amazing ! At several points I felt as though I was actually watching the show or walking beside Jacob while working in the menagerie . It felt real . And the perverse morbid sense of humor she gives Jacob as an elderly gentleman is laughoutloud hilarious ! Although I must admit I found myself fuming over the treatment of our senior citizens . That however is a rant for another time ! The characters in this book are so rich and deep . It was hard not to form some sort of fondness for them . In addition I found it amazing that Gruen was able to turn Rosie into a full character without completely humanizing her . Even though I have a strong bond to animals I still felt a close connection to Rosie.From a lot of her terminology knowledge of trains animals freaks etc . I really think that Gruen did a lot of research before writing this book . It makes it a lot more authoritative and realistic . While the story itself is fiction it makes it that much more believable and credible to be interspersed with fact.I will say that the happy ending Jacob 's extreme sensitivity etc . might be seen as extremely campy . However I felt that Gruen was trying to find something positive during the Depression . I feel that she did try to capture that even though there was food a shelter life on a train circus was not good either . The Depression was hard on everyone and no one was left unaffected . So while there was romanticizing occurring in the novel it felt as though she was trying to make a fairytale in an unlikely setting . To me that makes it even more endearing and tender . Many reviews I have read complain that she is trying to push an agenda with some of the issues she tackles but to me this was just a romantic love story of two people finding each other against all odds . I do however have to laugh a little at the ending . That part might have been a bit over the top ",4
"I wanted to like this book however the reality was the writing was subpar it reminded me of a a middle or high school essay on what I did over the Summer and the characters nor the plot were rich enough to hold my attention . ",1
"Much has already been said about this book so I 'll throw my five stars into the mix and keep it brief by saying this is an absolutely delightful story . I would definitely place it toward the top of my list of fictional tales I have thoroughly enjoyed . ",4
"This is really a fun read . The story is interesting the writing flows easily the characters are real and believable and even though I thought a story about a circus during the depression era might be depressing it was extremely interesting . I really enjoyed it and have placed it amongst my 'keepers . ' ",4
"As always the book was better than the movie . The movie was far too simple . The characters are actually very well developed in the book with much better dialogue that wasnt ruined by actors . Yes I guess it 's a romance novel but not in a Nicholas Sparks kind of way . I think it 's enjoyable for all audiences . ",4
"When I picked up Water for Elephants I was n't quite sure of the topic and was afraid I might have to put this book down low and behold it was a great book very entertaining the pages just kept turning and I finished the book wanting more ! The story of circus life is like none other as is this book . ",4
"Just finished this book and I thought it was really good . I thought the circus subject was interesting along with some romance and I was really pleased . For the last 25 % of the book I was really gripping my kindle waiting to see what was going to happen next ! This book did not disappoint ! ",4
"It took me a bit to get into the book but once I did I could not put it down . The love story captivated me and it is not really something you read about every day the circus which made it even more interesting.I would have given it 5 stars if I was more captivated when Jacob first joined the circus even so I definitely recommend this book ! ",3
"Wow where to begin . I literally just finished the novel and was left with the most beautiful feeling of what it means to capture the essence of humanity . Yes ! This is something you do n't experience too often and when you do you want to hold onto the feeling and never let go . I 'm not going to give a plot summary or play by play that 's what the product description and other reviews are for . This is a reaction review . I never really wanted to read this novel when it was all the rage . I would walk past it as I scanned the bookshelves and ignore it on the bestseller list . However when I saw the 3000 reviews and all the positive stars mounting up I knew people must be onto something . That coupled with my Kindle Fire Christmas present and this is free in the Kindle Lender 's Library.Where to start ? From the moment you start reading you are sucked right into Jacob 's world and the world of the circus . You find yourself running alongside Jacob and taking part of the daily activities of the circus . The characters are highly developed and you hate love and grow with each one of them . The author takes time to even develop the animals which I feel helps readers bond to the very world they now find themselves in . The story is never short of action passion compassion suspense and so much moreoften at the same time . I found myself holding my breath for long durations of the novel anxiously awaiting what happens next.train In short this novel is simply beautiful . ",4
"I thoroughly enjoyed this book . Water for Elephants been the only book all year where every one of my friends from book club gave a book such a glowing review . ",4
"I 'm going to be careful here because I do n't want to spoil anything for potential readers . Let me just say it is a great book sometimes disturbing but often funny and charming or filled with action . It also has a good bit of grit and tenacity in the main character . It is a look inside a unique community that you would n't get a chance to view this close if you were n't being escorted by one of their own . You may be tempted to stop reading at some point if you are an excessively tender soul however hang in there . All you need to know for now is this it is a fresh wellwritten book that you will love and ends in a good way so have no fear of it and enjoy . ",4
"I am very interested in the time period of this story and setting . I am refreshed by their hard times their often cruel lives and how they could even make it from day to day . There was one moment early in the book I almost laid it down and did n't pick it up for it was so oppressive to me . I am an avid animal lover so I felt a double punch to the gut . Yes I cried . Overall it was a journey through hard timesbut you know what ? They made it and will continue . ",4
"This book provides an upbeat feeling and introduction to a lifestyle all its own during economic struggle . World . welcome to the world of the traveling circus of times of yore . An easy read very entertaining . ",4
"Enjoyed the way the story took place in different times . Loveable characters . Characters that were believable and true to life . ",4
"Had not yet watched the movie but absolutely loved the book . A touching story sometimes sad yet happy ending.Really conveyed the time period . I would highly recommend . ",4
"I found some of the oldtimey phrases and circus lingo a bit difficult . I had to use the kindle dictionary as much as I could but most things were n't in there . I am still kind of confused about what red lighted really is . I need to Google that phrase . Anyway beside the lingo I found a really interesting story . I never really think this about a book but I kind of wish this book were longer . I wanted to know more about the key relationship that the author creates . She really could do another book with material I think she left out like what happens next.I recommend this book especially if you are looking forward to the movie with Reese Witherspoon Robert Pattinson and Christopher Waltz . ",3
"I picked up this book because of the high reviews it had received and was pleasantly surprised . I finished it in three days having a hard time putting it down when it was time to make dinner or go to bed . ",3
"I did n't mean to inhale this in two days . It 's the first book for a book club my two best friends in NYC and I are starting and we gave ourselves a month to finish it . Two of us have completed it less than a week after it was assigned.The book tells the story of Jacob now old reminiscing about his life as part of a circus . It 's an easy read and no literary feat by any means but it 's a good read all the same . Its 300plus pages fly by and in them you begin to feel like you 're a part of the circus understanding what it 's like to work behind the scenes . It discusses the meaning of love towards both humans and animals and honour what do you owe the people around you ? The parts I loved best though and that touched me the most were n't the love story I 've seen too many of its kind before . No it was the discussion of aging that got to me and made me cry so hard in the last two pages I woke my boyfriend up what does it mean to age ? What does your family owe you as you age ? And what does your life mean when you 're ninetysomething in a nursery home and alone except for your memories ? These questions terrify me they wrack me with guilt and fear and in raising them this book became something more than a beach read . I do n't think I 'll think of Rosie too much or Bobo I do n't think I 'll remember Jacob or Marlena too often either . But I will remember Jacob 's struggles in the nursing home and where we leave him when the book ends . ",3
"Since I 've never written a review on Amazon you can bet it would take one heck of a book to get me to do it . Water for Elephants is that book . I buy a LOT of books and with most of them I 'm left feeling dissatisfied . But with this book I read it over a weekend and just tore through it . Solid writing thorough research believable characters and a great story . I just love this book ! As a fan of HBO 's Carnivale it reminded me a lot of that series but make no mistake this is NOT a derivative work . I 'm just hoping that Gruen will return to this universe in the near future and give us another installment . ",4
"I have not seen the movie and was not sure how I 'd like a book about the circus but a lot of people recommended this novel and it got great reviews so I gave it a try . It was beautifully written with vivid imagery . How could you not fall in love with Jacob ? How could you not be enterained with the stories about the circus ? How could you not be enthralled with Marlena and Jacob 's secret love ? I really enjoyed reading it in fact I could not put it down and it only took me a week to read it . I think this is a story anyone could enjoy and the author did an amazing job with her research about everything from the circus to the prohibition . The parts about the old man got kind of depressing but there was a happy ending for all at the end . Highly recommended . Lovely read . ",4
"This is a fabulous story written with humor compassion and profound insight . We are first presented with Jacob Jankowski as an elderly man in a nursing home . The old coot may have problems with his shortterm memory but he certainly has a terrific longterm memory when it comes to remembering the details of his youthful days in a travelling circus . I thought that I had no interest whatsoever in the workings of a depressionera circus including the care of the exotic animals and the various freaks and acts . However the author depicts this unique microcosm of humanity with such passion and color that I found myself absolutely absorbed in the story early on.Adding to the historic ambience of this saga are the wellchosen photographs at the start of each chapter a man with a deformed human growing from his stomach a woman proudly showing off her bare upper extremities excited people milling around the big topIt is the undercurrent of spiritual darkness that makes this story fly so high . Gruen depicts the battle between good and evil with stunning accuracy the greed of Uncle Al the brutality of August the surprising kindness of the abandonned dwarf Walter and the meek vulnerability of Marlena and her animals.The scene with the drunkard Camel being told that he is dying of poisoning from Jamacai ginger extract is poignant . This followed by scenes with Camel being cared for in a box car by Walter and Jacob . Stirring because alternating chapters depict a now elderly Jacob in a similar position of helplessness.In sum a GREAT book . Whoever thought that an elephant would carry such literary weight ? No pun intended . I am totally baffled by some of the very negative critiques it has received on Amazon only to be followed by 5 star praises . Some have said it is poorly written . Are we reading the same story ? ",4
"I understand some of the criticism but does a book have to be a literary masterpiece to be immensely enjoyable ? The overwhelming positive reviews explain why not.It is well researched but maybe the plot stretched a bit too far at times and low quality dialogues have taken away from the book 's otherwise star quality.The depression era was well represented gave a good realistic feel of the troubled times and the people . Circus setting was pure genius and made it so interesting.Overall it is a very enjoyable book very readable . ",3
"Every once in a while there 's a book that seems written for you . It speaks to you in a way books you love have n't . You do n't just visualize the author 's words they leap off the page and rather than watching the movie in your mind you are living it . You feel the pain the joy the laughter . When the book is finished you 're more than disappointed . You feel invigorated and you search eagerly through the author 's books to see what along the same vein she has to offer . You search readers ' recommendations to find the books that leave the same imprint on you . Inevitably though the books satiate your appetite they do n't resonate in the same way . Welcome to Sara Gruen 's Water for Elephants.In the prologue we 're privy to a murder . We see it as Jacob sees it and tries in vain to stop it . Though the victim and murderer are n't named as we 're introduced to them it becomes clear in our mind who filled those roles.Then we start from the beginning in the midst of the Great Depression . Jacob is in class during the final few weeks at Cornell preparing for his finals before he becomes a doctor of veterinary medicine.In a moment the Dean will enter and change his path . Jacob was to go home and set up shop with his father working with the animals in his town . Instead he goes home to identify the remains of his mother and father . He sees the sign his father added to their onsite practice Jankowitz and Son Veterinary Practice . After identifying his family he visits the lawyer who tells him he has nothing . The bank owns the house and everything in it . The explanation as to why his parents mortgaged the house shatters him . He returns to school to finish his finals and finds that he can't.Jacob flees and seeing a train pass tries to jump aboard . Once on he realizes it is a circus train . An old man Camel vouches for him and works to get him a job within.As soon as the boss finds he is Ivy League educated degree or no degree he becomes the animal man . With such a prestigious job within he straddles the division between the higher ups and performers and the lower echelon who helped secure his place.One performer in particular Marlena fascinates him . She reminds him physically of the girl he left behind at school and emotionally captivates him . She matches his love of animals . Married to August who has the boss ' ear she is offlimits but a friendship develops anyway.Later comes Rosie an elephant pilfered from a circus that has gone defunct . Rosie suffers August 's wrath many many times . Jacob is stunned by her human like qualities . Understanding pain anger empathy happiness all emanate from her big brown eyes.Following the story I felt all of the emotions Rosie feels except perhaps the pain . Astonishment at the goings on to keep the circus running smoothly . The love Jacob develops for many people who help him in the course of creating a new life for himself free of the memories surrounding his past . Sadness at the loss of animals anger at the treatment of the animals and the red lighting of as they 're called today carnies.The characters came alive to me as did the setting . As soon as I finished this book I eagerly went to Sara Gruen 's website to read excerpts of other novels she had written . While good they did n't capture me the way this did . And I wanted more of this . So I went to Amazon 's recommendations Disappointedly I moved on to Barnes and Noble . No dice . So I tried the next best thing . Research . I wanted to read first hand accounts of the circus the way it was back then . The more I read the more I craved.Then as though they knew my hunger work offered me discounted tickets to the circus . I 'm still debating . On the one hand it 's the circus . Elephants that feel things like people do ! Horses that synchronize ! How can I say no ? On the other hand it 's not the 1920s . It 's almost 100 years later . What if it 's not the same ? I mean true we 're in the middle of a depression point 4 of pros It 's almost the same ! . But people are categorically different than they were then . Theoretically this extends to performers as well right ? But alas I have chosen to forego the circus at this moment because I fear like the recommendations of Barnes and Noble and Amazon it may fall short . So I will hold onto the satisfaction this book gave me and the hunger for more of the same . Hopefully there will be another book that catches my attention like this one . And soon . ",4
"A beautifully written richly descriptive love story and a wonderful testimony to the intelligence of animals . I have n't seen the movie and I 'm afraid I 'll be disappointed . ",4
"One of the best books I have ever had the pleasure of reading ! I was so surprised at how well and clear it was written ! I loved every page . ",4
"I got WATER FOR ELEPHANTS as a gift from my husband . When I opened it I said to myself why on earth did he buy me this ? I aked him what prompted him to chose it he said because I 've had a life long fascination with Freak Shows and they 're part of the Circus . OK. Fair enough.If it had n't been for him buying it for me I would have missed out on what has become my favorite piece of fiction I have ever read.I am in love with this book.This book is enchanting . The characters are variously loveable hateworthy pathetic nasty and dastardly.Sara Gruen knows her characters so well and writes them with such passion they seem real . You will feel that you know them too . And the writing is so vivid you will feel like you 're standing ringside . Inhale deeply can you smell the cotton candy ? And the ending of this book is the most perfect satisfying ending I have ever ever read.I 'm not going to pigeonhole it with category or genre and risk putting some people offlike me.There are some Book Club talking points at the end of the paperback version and one such talking point is to discuss the book 's 'pathetic glamour . ' That is a perfect descriptor . The circus fakes its glamour and its glitz the daily lives of the crews who work it are anything but and at times are brutal harrowing even.I 've learned a valuable lesson from this book what I want as a reader is just writing that takes my breath away . I got that from WATER FOR ELEPHANTS . ",4
"the movie almost mirrors the book but somehow the novel paints a better picture . this is not just a chick book . ",3
"This is a well told interesting story . It belongs in the historical fiction genre the subject is the travelling circuses which tried to make a financial go of it during the Great Depression . It is not a pretty picture but as in much of historical fiction it has a virtuous hero and a very upbeat ending . It also has an added dimension the story is told by the hero as he resides in a nursing home and suffers from the condescending attitudes toward the patients there . This aspect of the book was particularly good and for me the most genuinely moving . For that reason I wish the author had n't felt the need to give even this subplot such a nice ending . ",3
"I normally do not review books so that I do n't spoil the readl but I must say that this is a beautiful touching and emotional novel . Great ! ",4
"What a story and what insight into the life of the hero . From young man to old he kept me turning pages . It also caused me to assess my attitude of older citizens and my interaction with them . And who does n't love a circus . ",4
"A truly wonderful book ! A good read for everyone . I highly recommend for all ages . You will not be disappointed ! ",4
"I liked this book because it took me out of my normal modern day romance pieces to a place with such charm and drama and entertainment I just thoroughly enjoyed It . ",4
"I have n't seen the movie but did see previews . I though it looked like it could be good but was raised where the book is always better than the movie . I still have n't seen the movie but I must say that this book is GREAT ! I debated buying it for weeks and I am NOT disappointed at all that I did . I honestly wish I would have bought it sooner ! ",4
"So enjoyed the book well researched enticing story pulls you in with romance and suspense . Excellent storyline you fall in love with the characters and dont want to let go . ",4
"I have read many books lately and this is by far one of the top ten books that I have read ! I never wanted to put it down . Exceptionally written and thoroughly developed ! Not a disappointment throughout the entire 464 pages.This is a book that everyone should read ! ",4
"Book DescriptionAs a young man Jacob Jankowski was tossed by Fate onto a rickety train that was home to the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth . It was the early part of the great Depression and for Jacob now ninety or ninetythree the circus world he remembers was both his salvation and a living hell . A veterinary student just shy of a degree he was put in charge of caring for the circus menagerie . It was there that he met Marlena the beautiful equestrian star married to August the charismatic but twisted animal trainer . And he met Rosie an untrainable elephant who was the great hope for this thirdrate traveling show . The bond that grew among this unlikely trio was one of love and trust and ultimately it was their only hope for survival.This book came to us as a recommended read from several sources . Once selected we could not possibly put it down . The author Sara Gruen builds the detailed and fantastic world of a travelling circus during the Great Depression from the ground up ! The story of Jacob Jankowski is one of sorrow love and at times terrifying . His constant emotional struggles can be related to by many readers though perhaps not as fantastical and will captivate the imagination . The other characters Gruen constructed are perhaps the most remarkable outside of young Jacob as with any circus they all act their parts accordingly with flawless precision.One does not need to be a circus aficionado or historical reader to take pleasure in this novel for it contains a little of everything to captivate any bookworm . We guarantee you will not be able to put this one down ! ",3
"This is not really a particularly intellectual book or the kind that will have you pondering but it will hold your interest and enthrall you which makes it a perfect holiday read . It is not only a fantastic love story but is a seemingly accurate depiction of circus life during Great Depression so you still get to learn things after alland has enough plot to hold your interest but not so much as to seem over engineered . There is even a lesson about how we should treat old people.A good read ",3
"I finished all 350 pages in a day and a half . I Could n't put it down . I 've read a lot of great books but this is by far my favorite of all time and it sooo deserves the five stars I gave it . It 's like heartbreak friendship falling in love fear being forgotten and a blast from a cruel yet exciting past all in one and I may go read it again once I finish this review . Water for Elephants broke my heart and touched me at the same time . ",4
"I heard from a few people that this is a good read Not true . The idea of the story is interesting but it is written like a bad televisionremake set during the time period . I did finish it but I closed the book angry and disappointed . That being said I realize that I 'm in the minority and I 've spoken to other people who really enjoyed reading it . Just is n't for me I suppose . ",1
"its a great book and i enjoyed it as a little slow in some parts but other than that i really enjoyed it ",3
"I loved the movie but the book is so much better.The ending is so perfect ! I wish it was longer ! ",4
"Jacob Jankowski is a student at Cornell University studying veterinary medicine so that he can join his father 's practice.Near the end of his senior year and before he sits for his final exams he is called into the dean 's office and told his parents have been killed in an automobile accident . When he returns home to bury them he learns that his father is bankrupt and all he inherits is debts . After the funeral he returns to Cornell where his room and board have been paid up until the end of the year . He tries to sit for his final exams but ends up leaving without answering a single question . He walks away from the college and finally jumps aboard a railroad car and begins what will be an unusual life a hard life and exciting life with a circus.The story is told by Jacob when he is an old man living in a rest home . It is a depiction of life during the hard years of the Great Depression the even harder life as a member of a traveling circus and also provides a peek into the life of early rest homes.I found the book to be a little raw in spots but also exciting and entertaining because I remember the traveling circuses with the big top tents and the intriguing side shows which as a child I was never allowed to see . Alma WintersAuthor of the newly released Once Upon a Time Tales . ",3
"I was eager to read this book after all of the praise it has received . I was n't necessarily disappointed but not exactly getting all the hype . I enjoyed the visual scenes that Gruen painted and could easily picture it . I just could n't get past the story . I did n't feel an immediate chemistry between Jacob and Marlena . I 'm sorry if most other people disagree with me but the 'heat ' just was n't truly there for me . At times I almost felt that Jacob only attracted Marlena due to his difference to August not due to the actual love between them . While I also enjoyed the perspective of Jacob as an old man remembering his story it really just left me sad whenever I read scenes from the older Jacob 's perspective . He seemed so unhappy and it made me feel as if I were reading two stories one with a happy ending and one with a sad ending . In all I gave this story 3 stars because I felt that perhaps if it was n't being sold as a love story I would have appreciated it more . Instead I am left wondering what was so noteworthy about the characters love beyond the fact that they supposedly found love while working on a circus . ",2
"Water for Elephants has a quality so many modern novels are lacking and that is an sense of enchantment . So many novels these days take you to a place you would really rather not be but even the scruffy world of the downandout traveling circus is full of mystery anddare I say itsoul . Love does n't hurt either . My 84yearold mother dislikes modern novels too much bad language but she loved this one . ",4
"There are books you read for the story and books you read for the writing . Water for Elephants is of the former variety . It 's a quick read and a good read but it is not a great book.Ms . Gruen was thorough in her research so the reader does get some feeling for the gritty world of the train circus yet I felt when I finished the book that I had no clear sense of who the characters were . Jacob is a nebulous character as a young man and a shallow one in old age . As for the rest of the cast well when they are good they are very very good and when they are bad they aremonsters . Rosie the elephant is one of the more developed characters ! The author does n't seem to have a good ear for speech either . Any of the book 's dialog could come from any character 's mouth for the most part and some of the things Jacob says or says in his mind as an old man seem to land with a clunk . They just do n't fit.Add to that a slightly corny ending and a structure that comes out of any pulp murder mystery old person recalling a murder then going back to the start of the story and working back up to the murderwith a twist and you get just a middlinggood book.I am vehemently against the use abuse of animals in circuses so I was happy to see that animal abuse was part of this story . In fact I think the author cleaned it up a bit too much few facts about the orangutan and the chimpanzee for instance..it 's sickening what the higher apes were subject to and still are . What I think she could have cut back on is the gratuitous details about sex and the cooch tent . That all seemed tacked on and unnessesary.Overall I consider this book worth reading but I do n't see what all the excitement is about . If you really want a feeling for circus sideshow life read the novel Geek Love . ",2
"It took a bit to get used to the flashback style of this book but I very much enjoyed this story and all the characters . ",4
"Over all I did enjoy the book . It was a little hard to get into at first but the characters are great . The book triggers several different emotions and the last few chapters are addicting . It was very well written and quite enjoyable . Would recommend for 16+ . ",3
"This book was a quick read and a creative idea . But it was dry . It could and should have been elaborated on . It seemed as though the author was bored with writing it . Granted there were times of strong emotion but for the most part it was just lacking in all aspects . ",1
"i loved it . im sad i waited so long to read it though and its the best book ive read this year ",4
"I am speechless . This is one of the best books I have read in a very long time . I literally could not put it down and was so sad when it ended . This book brought out every emotion in me . Loved it ! ! ! ",4
"Skip the prologue and just start the story . Reading it wo n't hurt but I felt a little tricked . And it was such a good story on its own . Love the old photos of the circus . Gruen did a great job with her research I felt like I was there in a way that does n't happen often . ",4
"This was a great book . It reads fast and there are a lot of things going on simultaneously in this book which need to be thought about . I really enjoyed every word and am going to check out her previous book next . ",4
"Was n't sure I was excited about reading a book about the circus but this was a great story with an easy storyline to follow . My book club enjoyed it ! ",4
"It was a good book with parts that sort of jarred my sensibilities . I enjoyed the story and the backdrop to it . I learned more about early American Circus . I also liked the elderly aspect to it as well . I would not read it again but I would discourage some one else reading it . Once I started I could not stop . ",2
"In addition to writing an engaging story that offers a glimpse into a fascinating world foreign to most of us Ms. Gruen shows herself to be a master architect with this novel crafting a story that flows seamlessly between two radically different eras in her protagonist 's life . The book starts with a flashback so you know at some point it 's going to bring us back to the opening scene . But Ms. Gruen does so in such a surprising and unexpected way with a twist that left my jaw on the floor . It 's not an exaggeration to say I was stunned.With Riding Lessons and Flying Changes Ms. Gruen proved she was capable of writing good commercial fiction.With Water For Elephants she proves herself capable of writing a great American novel . ",4
"This is one of my alltime favorites . The story is engrossing . Rosie the elephant is an amusing and wonderful character . Loved her . ",4
"I got the Audible version of this book because I was curious about its incredible popularity and wanted to see what I was missing . Having finished I 'm mystified about the huge number of fivestar reviews.I do n't know much about circuses so I ca n't comment on the quality of the author 's research efforts although I see other reviewers have pointed out shortcomings . What jumps at me however are the onedimensional characters and overly contrived nature of key plot points.It 's never easy for an author to pull off a firstperson narrative from the vantage point of the opposite gender and I wish Sara Gruen had n't tried to speak through a male character . It seemed fine in the parts where he was speaking as a 90something but the youngman version fell flat . Often during the romantic and erotic interludes I found myself thinking Jacob sounded way too feminine.August the primary villain was way too overthetop animal abuser wife beater paranoid schizophrenic so labeled by August the main boss etc . Why is he even part of the circus . I think the author should have established some merits enough to justify employing him . Of course August the owner is just as onedimensionally rotten so perhaps no merit was needed.I was also appalled at the selfcentered irresponsible behavior on the part of Jacob the socalled hero who seemed quite willing to indulge his own love needs completely mindless of the horrific consequences likely to result for his friends . I do n't want to go into detail which would force too many spoilers . Suffice it to say that I strongly believe that Jacob the narrator and main character absolutely positively does NOT deserve the long and largely happy life he 'll eventually get to lead . It 's one thing to care about animals and less fortunate humans . That test Jacob passes with flying colors . But when it comes to moderating one 's own urges and balancing them against the wellbeing of others all others close to you not just Marlena the love interest Jacob gets a huge F . ",0
"I bought this book when it first came out because of the exceptional reviews I read . I have never finished this book . I started it shelved it read three books went back to it and I just could not foster up enough interest to continue reading . The story line is uninteresting and the characters were dull . I finally accepted that I would not likely ever to read it so I tried to sell the book back to the store . The book store did not accept it because this item was not moving from the shelves ! It was definitely not worth the money I spent on this item . ",0
"I just finished reading this book and I loved it ! I put off reading this book for about a year because I thought it was about a circus and I 'm not a fan of circuses because of the history of maltreatment of the animals within circuses . I thought it was about a circus but I was wrong it was about much more than that . It was a wonderful read and I recommend to everyone . ",4
"Odd . Heartbreaking . Funny . Insightful . Thrilling . Shocking . Everything.Learn about circuses nursing homes.What really got to me was when how is incredible the author got into the head and heart of a 90 year old man and bared his soul to us. Got ta go I 'm going to cry ",4
"This book is a quick read and a must for any summer reading list . I read it while in a book group but devoured it and then went looking for more wishing that the story would go on . A lovely story of a young man 's life with the traveling circus amid the depression . Having never read anything on the life of a circus traveler it was eye opening and riveting . ",4
"With the making of a Film based on this book and all of the rave reviews about it I guess I had high expectations . Do n't get me wrong I found most of it entertaining but I think the story lacked in its development and I never figured out why religion was ever even brought up among the characters in the earlier part of the book when it apparently had nothing to do with the plot . The ending was also a bit of a letdown because it was just too happily ever after for me.The funny thing is that I 'm not a big fan of Circuses in general but surprisingly I found the source material to be rather fascinating So if anything this book will propel me to look into more historical reading material on Circuses from the 19th century to the turn of the 20th Century . ",2
"What an amazing book . The story is engrossing the main character is lovable and realistic and the story is fascinating . This is one of the best books I have ever read.Bravo ! Amazing book . It made me smile and it made me cry . I simply LOVED this book and will recommend it to all my friends . Well written and wonderful characters . Great read . ",4
"I 've had this book for two years and only just read it last week . Why did I wait so long ? ? ? This truely is a gem . You feel like you know all the characters and the ones you do n't know so well are introduced with enough hints and inuendos that you can easily imagine their colorful pasts . I fell in love with the elephant . She brought a wonderfully odd twist to the story.And as for the author I was half way through the book before I paid attention to the jacket picture and realised that it was a female . She wrote exactly as a man would tell the story . The elderly Jacob was perfectly portrayed . She has obviously been around very old people and knows how they act and react to all kinds of situations.I truely did not want the story to end . ",4
"and take a look at behind the scene of a train circus from a long ago era . The book appears to be impeccably researched and the author has drawn on some stories that contribute to the books entertainment value and poignancy.Earlier reviewers have already provided a look into the plot so no need to reiterate . I devoured the book in about three days and place it in the top 10 books read within the last year . I found the characters both human and animal brought vividly to life and in a way that really made me care about them . The ending might be a bit of a stretch for some but somehow so very appropriate . Water for Elephants is definitely worth the time to read imho . ",4
"Fabulous story . I read it before the movie . The book was way better . I loved that Gruen did significant research to make the story realistic . I appreciated all of her notes at the back of the book.Dream Weaver Dream Weaver Novels Volume 1 ",4
"Great story line . Who does n't love the circus ? It was a great tale interweaving compelling and interesting characters and flashing back from the experiences of a 90 or 93 year old man and his younger self and his experiences with the circus of old . Wonderful ending but I wo n't spoil it ! ",4
"I decided to read this book because of the movie coming out in April . Well what a wonderful discovery ! This book sucked me in from the first page . I could not put it down . I highly recommend reading this book if you are considering seeing the movie in April . ",4
"I did n't realize this was going to be a movie when I bought the book . I 'm almost dissapointed that the movie is coming out they never live up to the books . Narrator is an old man and so funny . So much details in a circus I had no idea and putting it in the 30 's adds so much more to the story ! Enjoy . ",4
"I did n't see the movie . I was n't interested in the story but I somehow ended up with a copy and read it . I loved it ! It was a wonderful surprise . ",4
"I found Water for Elephants extremely entertaining despite never seeing a circus or having any interest in the subject . The backdrop is the 1930 's and the book throws you into the era of carnivals Prohibition and the Great Depression . You 're led by slums with hobos and everyone is dying for regular pay and something to eat.The story bounces back and forth between a man living out his twilight years in a nursing home and his 23yearold self where circumstances find him joining a circus . Life revolves around the train for these guys they always travel in cramped space with all kinds of memorable characters.There are some great anecdotes so strange you 'd think they were true . My favorite was Rosie the bull elephant sneaking lemonade by pulling her stake out of the ground and then being smart enough to replace it to avoid getting caught.The author respects the reader enough to let him figure out what 's happening from contextual clues . For instance a show horse is put down and the starving lions miraculously wind up fed . You have to connect the dots to understand the whole story.Another positive this book is not a tearjerker and avoids supernatural components unlike other popular fiction e.g . Dean Koontz . Note that there are some graphic sexual encounters and profanity that make this mature with a capital M do n't give it to anyone younger than a high school kid . ",4
"I hope the movie is more interesting then the book . It had its moments but if its price goes any higher on here I would recommend not bothering . It seemed a little generic . ",2
"I kept passing this book up because I just did n't think I would like it . Was I wrong . Loved it ! ! ",4
"I loved this book . Definitely a good love story based on trust and understanding of ones past . Have yet to watch the movie and do n't think I ever will . ",4
"I really enjoyed this book . I had seen the movie first and had great expectations for the book.the only negative thing i have about it was the terrible editing it was like it was hurried onto the kindle or the software had a bug in it lots of the letter i missing from the middle of words every time the word thanks was written it was missing the h tanks . also lots of 12 and 14 in the middle of sentences for nothing and sometimes numbers replaced letters or vice versa.Apart from navigating through annoying roadbumps of typos the actual story itself is quite touching.there is also a lot of differences from the movie but i can see where and why those changes were made to get it on the big screen . ",3
"IT 'S BEEN TOO LONG AGO TO GIVE A REVIEW ",2
"It was suggested to me by a friend and available in the lenders library I 'm glad I took the time to read it I did not see the movie . ",3
"Loved this book ! ",4
"Love the details in this book and the emotions . Could picture all the characters and their situations . Liked the ending also . ",3
"Much dead space or predictable nonaction could have been eliminated to make this a good short story . Pace was much too slow . ",2
"The author painted a vivid picture of each character and moment of the book . The way the author portrayed the biggest moment of the book in at the very beginning became a shock at the end . Excellent read hard to put the book down . ",4
"This book has been on my toread list for quite some time and I finally got around to reading it . I would have to agree with the majority of the reivews in that it certainly was an excellent and entertaining story . I am especially looking forward to seeing the movie now that recently came out.I liked how the story flipped from presentday Jacob who was 93 years old in a nursing home to the story of young Jacob on the circus train . The first part of the story of the events leading to how Jacob comes to join the circus in the first place really get the story going and draw the reader 's interest . There is a fair amount of sexual content within the story that surprised me a little but was in keeping with the progression of the story . I did n't particularly enjoy the portrayals of animal abuse that happened on the circus train but these also helped in building the storyline of August and Rosie the elephant.I was pleased by how the story wrapped up and am definitely interested in checking out some of the other books by this author . ",3
"This story helped me in gaining a better understanding of what it is to be elderly . The audio version is narrated by two men both are meant to be the main character one voice representing his twenties and the other is in his nineties . It certainly is n't centered around being of an advanced age but as a side story it was still very clear.I was pleasantly surprised by my conflicted response to the story . On the one hand his lamentations over being at the end of his life made me sad on the other hand he was funny and his life was a full one giving him many wonderful memories.My advice to a prospective listener or reader ? If you are bored with the first chapter hang in there it picks up and is worth getting to the end . ",3
"This was a very enjoyable book while reading I thought this would make a great movie I did n't realize until a week later that the movie comes out in April 2011 . I usually download free books I am so glad I paid for this one it was worth it . ",4
"Twists and turns . The book is based on actual historical facts blended with a great fictional story line . It is full of believable characters . ",4
"Water for Elephants is a love story set in a post depression traveling circus and told from the memory of 93 yearold man . The story jumps between the current life of the narrator a uncontented man who believes he is 90 or 93 and his rememberance of the love story between Jacob and the Benzini Brother 's circus.After the death of both his parents Jacob a veterinairian student finds himself penniless . Although not intentionally he runs away to the circus where he finds love.This story give great historical flavor and is a must read . ",4
"Water for Elephants is a tough one for me to review . I loved the theme and the split realities of it . You are basically following Jacob Jankowski the protagonist through two of his life 's biggest adventures . We are introduced to him at the circus and follow his story of how he becomes a vet for the Benzini Brother 's traveling circus . We are also switching back into his current reality where he is reliving these days from the nursing home that he now resides in.There are good plot points throughout and I did find myself wanting to get back to the book to see what happens next . At times however I found certain events did not play out in a way that was realistic to the story that was being built . Even though I was enjoying the story and the narrative I found myself aware of the fact that there was an author behind it all pulling the strings . Not being able to quite put my finger on why I was often pulled out of believing the story almost as if the author was showing too many fingerprints of the process of writing . For this reason it was hard for me to get lost completely in the book itself.All of that aside however I still found it beautiful . There was a moment in particular when I felt incredibly sad for our main character to the point where I had to put the book down and step away for a moment to collect myself . There is a wonderfully commentary woven throughout that allows the reader to ponder where one is at when you are looking back at your life in old age . I really enjoyed that thread.I had heard a lot of really good things about the book and was going into it that way . Unfortunately there was something missing for me when I completed it almost as if I had skipped an important part . For that reason I give it four stars . ",3
"Water for Elephants is a wonderful read . The story grabs your interest quick and keeps you moving along at a great pace . I enjoyed the way the author transitioned between the older Jacob and the younger Jacob so seamlessly . Wonderful writing style . ",3
"Water for Elephants is first narrated by Jacob a 9093 year old living out his days in a nursing home . He begins to tell the story of his life including a 70 or so year old secret he 's revealing to anyone for the first time . Jacob is a young man just short of taking his tests to become a Veterinarian until both his parents die and his life seems to hold no direction . He accidently finds himself in the midst of circus train where he meets an unpredictable circus manager August his beautiful wife Marlena and later a difficult to train elephant Rosie.The element that lights up this audio book is John Randolph Jones amazing narration as the tired and cantankerous older Jacob . His voice is heavy with age and experience . It would be difficult for any secondary narrator to compete but David LeDoux does a good job of holding his own . Though the setting is lively and obviously well researched the love triangle is underdeveloped and the end of the book just sort of unravels . At turns mindless salacious and fun Water for Elephants effectively captures a bygone time and offers some fascinating circus details most will enjoy . ",3
"Well researched but brutal in some parts this depicts circus life as I hope it used to be . Possibly not for your grandmother and definitely not for the feint of heart this book tells it like was . ",3
"What a great storyline from beginning to end . With such an amazing assortment of characters that feel like someone you know . A great read . ",4
"I am not by any means a reader or fan of Mainstream novels . My tastes tend to lean decidedly toward the stranger side of fiction Little PKD Laymon etc . But I decided while strolling the aisle of my local Amazon store after reading review after review that all but bowed before this title to try it . I am so glad I did.I tore through this book not wanting to leave Jacob stranded too long . I just could n't put it down I know how terribly cliche ' that is but it is the absolute truth.This novel made me smile which normally is a turn off for me what a nice change of pace . Pick this book up if you have n't already . Sit down with Jacob and listen to his story you 'll smile too . ",4
"This book was just soso for me . There was a total disconnect for me with any of the characters specifically between Jacob and Marlena . I thought their love story lacked passion of any kind . For me it felt like the only thing keeping them together was the horses and later Rosie . It was n't until half way through the book when Jacob finally admits he 's in love with her and it 's so lackluster I did n't really believe it . Perhaps I feel this way because I had just finished reading Wurthering Heights before this and expecting more passion between the young lovers however I 'm not interested in reading this book again to find out if that 's true.which is saying a lot . I thought the most interesting part of the book was the Q & A portion at the end where Gruen talks about her research and how all the events that took place on and off the train were based on real events that happened to various circus 's during that time . Knowing that did kind of put those events into prospective but not really being interested in circus history is where it failed to capture me . In the end Big on Circus history lacking on the love story . Not one I would recommend unless you like reading andor learning about the traveling circus . ",1
"I was looking for a good read and after seeing the high marks this book received I thought I could n't go wrong . I put it down halfway thru and only picked it back up because I paid for it . I read alot and I just do n't get the extreme praise this book racked up . ",1
"A friend recommended this book and I was thoroughly engulfed in it from the beginning . Such raw real life and survival during the depression era . Jacob is a wonderful main character who is thrust into a world grieving and desolate after his parents sudden death leaves him with nothing . The story is told by him as an old man of 90 or 93 as he says and is truly blunt on how our elders are treated in nursing homes and devalued as human beings . But the wonderful painful and thrilling story of his life his love and his journey after his parents death lands him in a circus is spellbinding.Just know that the ending will make you smile and cry and feel joy for Jacob ! ",4
"Amazing characters . I 'm still in shock over the fate of even the most disgusting characters in the book . Truly a masterpiece . ",4
"Chosen after reading an excerpt . Good character descriptions . and scenes are beautifully depicted . I felt involved in the story . Bit of a surprise ending that leaves you wanting to stay with the main character a bit longer to see where he ends up . ",3
"Great book . Was hard to put down after you start reading . Wonderfully written . Seemed like you were actually there and you could see and hear the story as it unfolded ",4
"I bought this book orginally when it first came out . It has been sitting on my shelf untill this weekend . I started this book early morning and had it done by the end of the day . I could n't put it down ! I the author does a great job with switching back and forth between times . Alot of authors try and do this but ca n't acomplish it but this one did a great job.The book held me in suspense the entire time . There never was a down moment in the whole book . Something was alway going on to keep the readers attention . I loved that he did research to write this book . The pictures also helped with what you were imagining as you read it.The author does a good job with making us have a love hate relationship with many of the characters . One minute I would n't think someone was that bad and then the next thing they did I could n't stand them or vice versa.The interaction with the animals brought in a whole different set of characters . Rosie seemed almost human to me.I hated and loved to finish this book . I have n't found something this good in a while . ",4
"I found this book easy to read and entertaining . I really enjoyed the present memory back and forth set up . ",3
"I found this to be a wonderful book full of memorable characters . It was hard to put down . The story shifts between the main character as an old man and his memories of life with the circus ",4
"I had heard a lot of positive comments on this book for a while and thought I would see for myself what all the praise was about . Well this book deserves 5 stars and more . It is really a book that will stay with you for a while . I know it will be among my all time favorites as well it should . The writer has done an excellent job fleshing out the people and you almost feel as if you know them personally or have dealt with people like time in real life . The depression was deep in the US when the story is introduced . Life can hand out a lot of hard knocks even to animals . I really never thought about that aspect of life before . I am very happy I had the opportunity to read this book . I delayed reading it many times because frankly the title put me off . Then I remembered to never judge a book by it 's title . ",4
"I had no idea this book was about the circus . I really enjoyed it . You know you 've read a good book when you are sad that it 's over . ",4
"I have a tendency of sticking with supernatural stories because I love the magic of them . While Water for Elephants is far from supernatural this story was easily the definition of magical.The story actually starts out in the nursing home which is so intricately described that I could hear the whirring of the mechanical machines helping the patients stay alive and I could smell the putrid scent of finality in the air . Instantly I was pulled in by the lyrical writing style . The author also does a nice job of analyzing life 's major questions and hopping on her train of thought was enjoyable.The unwinding of Jacob 's memories is done so beautifully . Gruen achieved what few authors can and brought her characters to life . I almost felt like I was hearing this beautiful heartbreaking brave and wonderful story first hand staring at Jacob 's frail body beneath the fluorescent lights of the nursing home.This book took me on a journey and at the end I was n't quite ready to hop off the train . There was a twist I never saw coming and my only regret is it took me so long to pick this one up and read it . I recommend it for people who love a story of adventure bravery and love that overcomes all obstacles . ",4
"I have read this book twice now and every time it feels like I am discovering it all over again . Great writing and story telling . It evokes all sorts of emotions at appropriate times and in the end I felt completely satisfied . ",4
"I loved everything about this book the characters the settings the pace the story itself . I wo n't repeat the synopsis as many others have done so but this is one of those books that you still remember a few years later with a smile . Do n't pass it up ! Another book not to be missed is The Help . ",4
"I loved the rich descriptive language . The author does a great job of the writer 's maxim show do n't tell revealing bits and pieces to fill in the details and background of characters over time . The main character Jacob is very funny especially when he 's a 93year old with attitude . I felt so sorry for old Jacob after a while . I really wanted to get back to young Jacob and hoped for a happy ending . Without giving anything away I was incensed at one point about what happened to old Jacob . I hated that part so much that I questioned all the favorable reviews . However I must say that I 'm satisfied with the ending and glad that I read the book . One bonus of the fact that it 's a best seller I was able to easily check this out from my local library after a few week 's wait . No problem I was n't in a hurry.Regarding adult themes beware potential SPOILERS belowI 'm definitely NOT a fan of inserting graphic sex or nudity or swearing into a story for no reason . I prefer nice clean stories and think you really do n't need to be explicit . However I think the scenes in this story helped set the environment . They were typically treated with such humor that I laughed a lot and did n't mind them . First young virgin Jacob guards a stripper while she performs . The striptease and gigantic breasts are described in vivid detail . Jacob 's horror amazement and embarassment having never seen a naked woman before shows he 's really not in Kansas any more . That 's the most explicit scene and it 's really hilarious . There are a few other sexual situations often mixed with drinking . The actual love making was left to the imagination . There 's a little swearing . I found the beating of animals to be the most objectionable Jacob the animal lover spends a lot of time trying to figure out how to help . ",4
"I loved the story and how the author merged the memories ofthe old man with his younger days . I could n't put it down ! ",4
"I loved this book . And to think it was the first from Sara Gruen at that . This is a book that spawned the movie of the same name . I saw the movie first then read the book then saw the movie again . As often happens the book provides much more color than the movie ever could . For instance the owner of the circus Big Al is shown in the movie in only one scene for a moment giving approval for a purchase . Sara researched the subject of train circuses in detail . The cruel practices common during the depression to stay in business are shocking but make riveting reading as the backdrop for this story of growing up awakening and goalseeking . Highly recommended . ",4
"I loved this book . I had seen the movie a while back and loved it . A friend of mine recommended the book and said it was much better than the movie . She was right . Gruen does a great job of developing the characters and you feel connected and part of the story . I 'm glad I finally read it . ",4
"I really enjoyed this book . Sarah Gruen did a great job of telling the story ofcircus with all the beauty cruelty and the harsh life during the depression.The author states that she did research the circus during that time period and it shows in her writing . She really describes the people and animals that were the main part of a circus and they come to life in my mind . I could see and hear them as I read the book.It starts off with the main character Jacob Jankowski as a very angry oldman in a nursing home . He decides to go to the circus and reminisces about his past . We are then introduced to the young Jacob Jankowski . The book goes back and forth in time as many do today.The author really nails it when she writes about the depression . I have read and studied the depression and she portrayes it so vividly . I felt so sorry for the workers performers and the animals . They all suffered in one way or another.The characters had their flaws.The book paints the Ringleader as a charming but violent man . One who had a short fuse and was a loose cannon.I was fascinated by Jacob Jankowski . In spite of the hardships that he had to endurehis kindness and gentleness never wavered.I admired Marlena as a beautiful graceful and longsuffering woman . She was not brave enough to leave . I recommend this book to all . The movie followed the book very closely except the Ringleader was not as mean as in the book . ",4
"The book its self was amazing let alone the characters . The characters such as Jacob and Marlana became a part of me Walter and Camel too . I love this book and probably always will . ",3
"The character of Jacob going back and forth between past and present . I fell in love with Rosie the elephant . It was a hard to put down novel . Highly doubt the movie can match the visuals created by the story itself ! ",4
"This book grabs you from the minute you pick it up . It has intrigue dysfunction love and amazing humanlike emotions in the circus animals from Rosie the elephant to Queenie the terrier.The movie was great but the book had so much more depth and characterdevelopment.It seems so incredible that anything like this could happen in real life even during this period in US history . Tough circus life is described inamazing detail.The lopsided human love triangle adds another dimension to this book and its dysfunction . Would highly recommend this semifictional novel . ",4
"This book was everything I hoped it would be and more . A heart wrenching love tale set in the circus world in the great depression era . The characters capture your heart and hold it captive until the very last page . ",4
"This book was recommended to me by a friend . I bought it for my Kindle but it sat there for months as I was n't in my literary phase . I finally decided to give it a go and was so incredibly surprised ! I LOVED this story ! It was filled with so many emotions and the characters are depicted in such a vivid fashion I could picture them so clearly ! They stayed with me for quite some time after completing the book and that rates VERY high with me . I even got my husband to read it and he loved it as well . I really could n't put it down until I knew just what happened to everyone.and the ending ? AMAZING ! ! ! ! I cried in joy fulfillment closure and sadness ! Wonderful read ! Just My Opinion ",4
"This is a book to escape into where you cheer for the good guy and hate the bad guy ! A glimpse into another life . ",4
"This novel tells the story of a man who is now old and struggling with health problems . A carnival comes to town and he remembers the amazing life he once had . I loved the ending the most and hated when characters died . The story itself was believable and the characters complex . This book is not for children and can leave you quite depressed at certain points . Other than that and that 's more of an observation than a complaint this is a solid read . If the characters did n't die this would 've been a 5 . ",3
"This story grabs you with swirly plots and colorful characters who live an extraordinary life style in the circus . Water for Elephants is for anyone who has a drop of gypsy in their blood or even just wishes they could live out their dreams of adventure . ",3
"This story takes place during the Great Depression . It is a love story but also a story about life with a traveling circus and all the rawness and crudeness that goes along with being part of the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth as remembered by Jacob Jankowski . Normally I 'd much rather do my own reading however David LeDoux and John Randolph Jones did an excellent job the ninetysomethingyearold Jacob was especially enjoyable . When he read I felt as if I were sitting next to him in the nursing home listening to his amazing story . ",4
"This was an excellent book ! I always love the books more but the movie was just as good ! Very well researched and writtendefinitely one of the top books ! ",4
"Thought of my Dad more than once while reading this . Highly recommend this read on a summer evening . Thank you ",4
"Very thoughtprovoking and wellwritten . And the story told from two different time frames was very effective . It was also good to include interviews with the author telling about how she researched the story too . ",4
"Water for Elephants was a great book ! Loved the transition from young Jacob to old Jacob the parallels between the circus and the circus that was the nursing home . I could have done without some of the language but all in all the book had me hooked from the beginning . I recommend this book for anyone interested and unsure . It will not disappoint . ",4
"How a book about a 90 year old man can be so interesting and entertaining I do n't know but this book is both . I will recommend this book to anyone . The story is an old man in a nursing home recalling his life in the circus . a GREAT read . The story has heart action suspense tendernessa real page turner . ",4
"I got this with my free trial month of prime.I really liked the book . As usual the book is much better then the movie . ",3
"This book is not what I expected at all..I guess I expected more of a love story as well as an adventure and what I got was neither . While I give the author credit for her obvious research on the erathe story was so incredibly slow ! ! ! I kept thinking is this over yet ? ? I wanted to like it I really did . Definitely a disappointment . I wish I thought differently . ",1
"Wow ! I picked this up to read on the airplane to & from Las Vegas . I wound up finishing it while on my trip.Gruen is a wonderful story teller you can tell she researched extensively for this novel . While it 's not a book really about a circus that is the main setting for most of the book . I really thought it would be a book all about Carnie Folk . How far from the truth was I ? ! The story is told from the view of an ageing circus vet which is different to begin with . One would think that these types of stories would be told from performer 's points of view & while that would be interesting Jacob 's POV is just as intriguing as another other 's would have been.It 's a great short read that 's captivating & spellbinding . ",4
"First I must mention that I love books that take you to a time and place that you have no knowledge about and in this case it 's circus life in the first half of the 1900 's . It was fascinating to read what life was like in those days for those who worked in the circus from performers to the labors . As for the book itself I did enjoy it but I would n't call it a page turner and often in the first quarter of the book I thought about just putting the book down and starting something else a little more exciting to read . However the farther into the book I got the more I started to care about the characters the more invested in the book I became . In the end I was very glad I continued to read the book and now I can say I would recommend the book to friends . ",3
"I ca n't say I have ever read a book that was even remotely similar in plot or storyline . Water for Elephants is one of the most original novels that has ever graced my eyes . I felt all the emotions Jacob did as I read and the story seemed to transition seamlessly between the present and his memories without being confusing as some other books can be when they try the memory flashback thing . It 's one of the few books that I read that I simply could not put down stopping only to eat and sleep . ",4
"This is a very beautiful wellwritten story that at times had you really feeling both good and bad feelings for many of the characters . Jacob lived a hard life after his parents died but I appreciated his tenacity . He was determined to make it in the circus and to make it in life . I throughly enjoyed the ending and I think if I was Jacob that that 's how I 'd want to spend the rest of my days too . I highly recommend this book for anyone who wants to read a story about real life struggles love loss and hope . ",4
"so all I can do is add my voice to chorus.Gruen writes an incredible dualnovel . The tale of one man both fresh out of college and fresh into a nursing home . The character development is impeccable with every player on the stage being exposed to the reader to the precise level needed for their role . As for the plotthis is such a fresh story I had no idea where it might be going . This was the first book in a long time I had n't figured out ahead of time.If you enjoy fiction read this book . Possibly the best written novel I 've read in years . ",4
"Very interesting history of circus life . Could not put this book down . Wonderful story filled with flashbacks of circus people and environment . ",4
"got the sample for my kindle and loved it . bought it . then it got raunchy . alot of bad language and vulgar descriptions . I just wish all that had been in the sample so I would n't have wasted my money buying the book ! ",0
"This unique story brings back a slice of the 1930s the long gone circus world of the past but not the usual bigtop action . The main character is without giving away anything serves in a position that straddles the worlds of performer and worker and yet belongs to neither . There 's madness grinding poverty tradgedy revengeexcitement bewilderment surprises and revelations but I do n't believe a review should be a book report so trust me if you like suspense tinged with the meaning of life itself please do yourself the favor of reading this wonderful novel . I wish I could erase my memories and do so afresh . Jim . ",4
"This novel made me want to meet someone who had worked on a circus before . The prologue is all I read in the store and I immediately felt the need to buy it because of the mystery . The book is filled with exciting storylines that will capture your attention and keep it there throughout the storyhoping that the storyline will end as you hoped.When you get to the part in the book that the prologue mentions the actual outcome will surprise you . The animals all find a way into your heart and the characters are all worth remembering and holding on to . I recomend this book for anyone interested in historical fiction or even science fiction because while it revolves around reality a cirus the way that it is written almost feels like science fiction . ",4
"I do n't read fiction . A snob journalist I believe my time is better spent reading nonfiction . Due to reasons I wo n't bore you with I picked this book up and thumbed through the first couple of pages just to see if the writing was any good . I did n't put it down . Read it through to the finish . The last time this happened with me and fiction was fifteen years ago with Boy 's Life by Robert McCammon.Sara is a wonderful storyteller with an engaging narrative style and Jacob is a colorful character with whom to build a story around.So if you 're a nonfiction snob like me or a fiction addict like my wife you ca n't go wrong with this book . Highly recommended . ",4
"Really enjoyed this book could n't put it down . Some parts a bit disturbing.. but good . ",3
"The story line is simple man meets girl falls in love and must get past all obsticles in the way of their love BUT I loved the descriptions of all the characters time and events . ie.traveling circus . I do not think the idea was so original.ie boy meets girl ect . but the research that the author put into the circus idea was just great . I actually felt like I learned something about a life I would never had even thought to learn anything about . I would definatley look for more titles from this author because her research and time put into her characters and themes is fantastic . ",3
"I am an avid reader and ALWAYS like a book better than the movie based on it . This time that was not the case . It was just okay but had I not seen the movie I probably would have loved it . ",2
"The concept of this book was interesting to me but this book is boring . The characters are one dimensional and the main character is lame . I decided not to finish it after reading other reviews that say it is a waste of time I got about half way through . ",0
"The perspective from a 90 or 93 year old he ca n't remember which man in a wheelchair in a nursing home with flashbacks of his life on a circus train during the Depression all provided an interesting thoughtprovoking story . In addition the conversation with the author and the study questions at the end of the book are a nice bonus . ",3
"This bumped Secret Life of Bees off the top of the my list for audiobooks . I LOVED this book and highly recommend it as an audiobook . It 's like a one man play . ",4
"I had high hopes for this book . Lots of great reviews an interesting setting I find fascinating and a love storynot too shabby . I did n't go in expecting literary greatness but even so this book fell flat . For starters the old man reflecting from a retirement home is a tired technique and all those chapters bored me to tears . My main problem with the novel however is that the characters are one dimensional . They always seem to be doing dramatic things and facing tragedy after tragedy but I could n't connect because there is very little reflection or internal monologue not even in the retirement home ! . The story clips along at such a quick pace it gets bogged down by its own farfetched events . I found it difficult to understand why the characters and even Rosie the elephant act the way they doeverything seems trumped up to make the plot work . I ca n't say I even completely understand the title . I got the connection to the man in the retirement home who claimed he carried water for elephants but what in the heck did this have to do with the story ? Maybe I 'm just not deep enough to understand ! Quite frankly I did n't enjoy the book much at all and my advice would be to skip it . Perhaps the movie is better . ",1
"I was extremely happy with every aspect of this book until in one of the final chapters when Uncle Al tells Jacob that August is a paranoid schizophrenic or as he puts it a paragon schizophonic . After reading this there seemed to me to be simply too many similarities with an older novel I read in 2006 William Styron 's modern classic SOPHIE 'S CHOICE . A beautiful Catholic woman and a handsome Jewish man who fight a lot due to the man 's schizophrenia another younger man who is new to their 'group ' who has feelings for the womansexdeaththe only dfference seems to be the circus setting and the fact that in this the woman DOES N'T die and ends up married to the new younger man . A nice book but not extremely original at least not in the romantic storyline . ",3
"This is my new favorite book . Besides being a GREAT story I feel like I have made many new and interesting friends . Sara Gruen demonstrates a gift for characterization . Each character transcends hisher strengths and weaknesses to portray the good the bad and the ugly of circus life in the postdepression era . She truly captured the mystique of running away to join the circus through her characterization.Jacob Jankowski 's the narrator & featured characher sense of humor is priceless . I found myself either chuckling out loud or squirming in disgust throughout his storytelling.I found the book difficult to put down yet I did not want it to end.If you do n't read another book this summer read this one . You will experience a myriad of emotionshappiness sadness fury longing relief distress even enchantment . . . ",4
"Not a book I would have picked to read but it was selected for my bookclub . Have to say I loved it it reminded me of one of my favorite novels Angle of Repose by Wallace Stegner in it 's effective use of flashbacks . The story is different and engrossing showing a subculture rarely seen . I did n't expect to like a book about the circus but found it fascinating . ",4
"I had a hard time getting through the book so I gave up and just watched the movie . I enjoyed the movie although it was so sad . ",2
"I purchased this book as a gift for my daughter which she loved She gave me a great review therefore I can recommend the book to you . ",4
"I could n't put this book down an excellent story easy read and fun ! Now I ca n't wait to see the movie ! ! ",4
"What took me so long to discover this book ? I had n't heard about it from anyone just found it during a browse . I 've been looking for a good read for so long and Water for Elephants was right there the whole time . I ca n't wait to read Sara Gruen 's other books and when I finish them her new one should be available . She brings to life the good the bad and the ugly of the circus world and her characters are vivid and full of life . I found myself completely engrossed in the characters and falling in love with the main animals . I could n't wait to get to the next pageand the end was worth the whole trip . For me it was one of those books that I was sorry to finish . Thank you Sara Gruen for the beautiful journey . ",4
"Was an excellent read would not have chosen on my own but book club picked it & I enjoyed it .Would recommend it as a read to anyone . ",4
"First of all Sara Gruen tells a really good story . People and animals both have their moments . What most impresses me though is her ability to show the feelings and memories of an old man . Once old we tend to forget that the old man in a nursing home was once a part of exciting and dangerous events.To me the viewpoint and dialogue of Joseph at 90 or 93 really makes this book.Give it a read.And now the point of the Audio review If you like the book then you will find the unabridged audio a real treat . The reader captures the characters and takes you right along . We have listened to the story twice and still appreciate the skill of the reader and the beauty of this book . ",4
"This is the best book I have read in a long time ! A great love story and a trip back in time to the 1930 's in the viewpoint of an elderly man . An interesting look at circus life . Also I am not a member of PETA or anything but I know many die hard animal lovers would appreciate this book also . ",4
"The reality came from his voice when he was 90 and when he was 20 . Absolutely enjoyable . The early circus as it came to town was truly captured . Brought back old memories . ",4
"Where to begin ? A real page turner . I ca n't tell you how much housework i neglected to read this wonderful book . if you dont read anything else you 'll be fine with this one ! ",4
"I started reading Water for Elephants on a Saturday night and before I knew it I had read half the book in one sitting . Sara Gruen 's protagonist Jacob Jankowski carries you through the novel both as a twentythree year old who just walked out of his Vet exams and onto the Circus arena and as ninetythree year old man stuck in a nursing home . Gruen 's flawless ability to capture Jacob 's voice both as a young and old man are is one of the many strengths of her talents . The storyline which is composed of comingofage love and well a circus will draw you in and keep you till you eyes read over every last word . Water for Elephants is a brilliantly wellwritten and engrossing story that will appease to both men and women alike . ",4
"I thought this book was an interesting and quick read . The story pretty much grabs you instantly and I finished the book within a couple days . I 'm always in the market for a good love story and this book was fast paced and interesting . I have n't seen the movie yet but I 'm looking forward to it . I love Reese Witherspoon . I would recommend this book ! ",3
"I loved this book ! I found it very easy to read and get lost in the story . I liked how it was told from presentday Jacob 's view looking back on his life . This helped me understand what type of man he was . I felt like I was there will him throughout this story . The setting of the Great Depression made the struggles and triumphs mean so much more . I found all the main characters Jacob August Marlena Walter and even the elephant Rosie to be extremely poignant especially when you remember the story is told from an elderly Jacob . The transitions from memories to current day Jacob were very smooth and I did n't feel distracted or lost during these changes . If you love a romance novel with hero and heroine then you must read this book ! ",4
"1 I hate the circus because I do n't believe in subjecting animals to this kind of treatment.2 I loved this book so much it is now one of my favorites because3 After reading this book it 's made me understand so much more about the inner workings of the circus and that for every villain associated with mishandling animals there is a hero or two protecting and nurturing these creatures.I applaud the author who is a horse breederactivist from what I gather for writing about the circus . I thought it was going to be some horrible account of the circus life and have no substance . Boy was I wrong . The protagonist Jacob leaves his exams to become a vet after learning of the death of his parents and literally jumps aboard a train not knowing what kind of train it is or the kind of people on it . I guess you have to just take the biggest risks in life sometimes and do what does not make sense to reap the biggest rewards.I am anxiously awaiting the movie to come out in April ! I hope they do n't butcher it . ",4
"I enjoyed reading the first half of this book but I found myself skimming through parts in the middle . Not sure if I understand all the fuss . ",1
"This was one of those books that caught my attention from the very start and had me continually wanting more . I ca n't tell you how sad I was to have finished this book so quickly ! What an amazing read ! ! ! ",4
"No matter what your taste in books may be this title has something for everyone . Fantastic writing ! ! ",4
"I bought this book before i watched the movie and of course the book was WAY better than the movie . it is written beautifully and you instantly fall in love with the characters and feel their emotions . ",4
"I LOVED this story ! ! ! What an amazing storyteller Ms. Gruen is . I could n't put this book down and absolutely loved every minute of reading this wonderful tale.My wishPlease make a movie out of this delightful book ! ! ! ",4
"I absolutely loved this book ! I enjoyed the history the animals and of course Jacob and Marlena . I 'm an animal lover and was heartbroken the way some were treated in the book but you must realize this can be reality . Trust me justice is served for the animal cruelty . I plan to pull this book out next year and reread ! It 's a keeper . ",4
"When I downloaded this book I honestly did n't expect much more than a nice way to pass some time . I really underestimate this little gem . Once I picked it up I found it hard to put down . In fact I stayed up past my bedtime to finish it but it was worth the extra cup of coffee I had to have the next morning.Without going into any details about the story itself there 's more than enough other reveiws to do that I 'll start by saying I was almost immediately endeared with the main charachters which is a testament to the writing abilities of the author . I laughed and cried with the characters and was genuinely sad to see some of them go.While the ending was more than a little predictable it was still a good read . ",3
"What can I say this book moved me . I saw the movie and put off reading the book the movie was n't bad but did n't inspire me to start reading . Wow am I glad I did ! The transitions from depression time to the present left me breathless . The expertly told story played with all my emotions . Left me with a renewed appreciation for the difficult times my parents and grandparents grew up in yet made me want to experience them . I could n't put the book down until finished then I went to my computer looked up old circus pictures and finally bought tickets to Ringling Brothers Circus later this summer . ",4
"I used to love to read however it has been ages since a book has captured me like this one did . The description of characters is both dear and terrible at times . The description of the life with the circus in this time in history is fascinating . Not really for young readers it is a bit lusty in some areas but not offensive to me . I have not experienced the movie yet it will be a challenge to capture the quality of this book . I look forward to reading more of Sara Gruen novels . ",4
"This is an Indiana Jones action packed novel . Some things predictable some things not . Great descriptions and an emotional attachment . ",4
"I agree with many of this book 's reviews . They 're right the author does make you empathize with her characters . When reading I felt like I was right with the characters watching them . Many reviewers also emphasize and appreciate the book 's unusual story . The story really does have wonderful historical flavor . Most of the characters participate in a 1930s traveling circus and reading about this circussociety is entertaining and informative.Now for all of that the book 's writing was nothing extraordinary . While Sara Gruen tells a unique story she is not a unique storyteller . Her writing was too common for me too similar to the writing styles of so many authors who are currently alive.As I was reading I kept asking myself Have I read anything by this author before ? The truth was I had never read anything else by her . But I felt like I had because her writing style and word choices were nothing new to me.I imagine that in a couple years I wo n't be able to remember reading this book . Perhaps I 'll hear someone talk about it and I 'll get a feeling of dejavu and say Oh yeah . I think I might have read something like that at some point.Again do n't get me wrong this was an engaging book . It was entertaining and I cared about the characters . It was a good read and well worth my time . I happily recommend it to people who want to be entertained and who might like to read about the circus . Just do n't expect anything amazing.Oh and if you do n't like violence or scenes with sexual content you should probably stay away . I do n't mind these things this does n't affect my rating but I figured a warning was warranted . ",2
"I passed over this book many times but one day decided to take a chance . I was not expecting such a great read . Read the entire book in a day and was left wanting more . Such as did they ever find Walter 's and Camel 's body after the train stopped ? Did they ever capture or prosecute Blackie and his gang for murder ? Wish I knew more . Maybe there will be a second book later . Meantime for those of you not steeped in elitist review criticism this book is a wonderful surprise . ",4
"Jacob Jankowski loses everything dear to him he goes a little nuts and joins the circus . Gruen writes an engaging story that kept me turning the pages . She knows how to build suspense she uses foreshadowing in the first few pages that makes the reader want to get to that point in the story . Although this may sound commercial it 's a complement this novel was made to be turned into a movie and I believe it is going to be one . Join the circus and fall in love ! ",4
"This is simply just a wonderful book ! The characters are well defined each and everyone of them ! You care you like you love you hate ! The story unfolds with Jacob at 91 or 93he is not sure and his life.Schooled in vetinary science he finds himself adrift after the loss of his parents and any financial stability . He joins the circus and meets a cast of characterS like no other.His love for Marlena his ultimate choices and growththe paths takenandThenhe is 91 or 93just read itI ca n't wait to see the movieit will be magic ! ",4
"A wonderful story about a wonderful warm gentle human being through his words you see his life past and present excellent book . ",4
"Well written . I could n't put this book down ! A tragedy turned almost comical back to tragic resulting in excitement laughter and never ending love . I recommend reading the Q & A after finishing the book they are interesting.I said what I meant and I meant what I said . An elephants faithful onehundred per cent . Dr. Suess ' Horton Hears a WhoI appreciate the fact this quote was used in the beginning of this book . The ties it makes to the story line are perfect . ",4
"I have n't seen the movie I wanted to read the book first . I loved this story line . Very entertaining and such a fanastic ending . I really enjoyed it . I ca n't wait to see how the movie compares . ",4
"I must say that Water for Elephants was a great read . A heartwarming story I can relate to the story line of the nursing home I work in one and it put some laughter into the book . This was recommended to me by my Sister 's friend . I am glad to have purchased this one . Sara Gruen did one excellent job . Thank you Sara ",4
"I was so excited about this book . Something about it really made me want to love it . I bought the hardcover which is something I never do because I did n't want to wait for the paperback edition . I should have saved my money.The story was interesting enough and it certainly kept me engaged for the entirety of the novel . I would have liked the detail to be more fleshed out . Some parts seemed to be rushed like the ending while others were oddly long . I also think it was easy to tell that it was a woman attempting to write from a male perspective and while sometimes that works out fine this time something seemed a bit off.Still the book was fine and everything came full circle . The ending was neat and tidy but really not a bit realistic . If you are looking for a quick read this would fit the bill but it 's not a book I 'm keeping around and I certainly would n't read it again . ",2
"Water for Elephants has it all adventure drama romance history and the circus ! What more can you ask ? Seriously read this book . ",3
"After debating whether or not I wanted to read this..it came up as a free book for prime members..so I thought what the heck . I absolutely loved it even with the prices of violence here and there . It was a great story with a happy ending ",4
"Very well written . A fascinating story about the circus folks of the 1930 's . This book will make you laugh and cry . ",4
"The story follows Jacob Jankowski who is living out the rest of his life in a rest home . When he was 23 he was poised to become a veterinarian . However fate stepped in and he left school . He ended up joining a traveling circus where he assisted with the menagerie . During this time he falls in love with Marlena who is a performer in the show and also married to the ringleader.I will say that Gruen is gifted in her ability to create imagery . You can see the animals and feel the angst that the circus employees go through under their sadistic leaders . That being said I ca n't say that Marlena is a welldeveloped character . I do n't feel as though we know why Jacob fell in love with her beyond the fact that she was beautiful and cared about her animals . It feels as though that part of the story was left out.And why is August Marlena 's husband so evil ? It does sound as though he suffers from some mental issues but what is the background on him ? I just could n't fall in love with these characters nor the story . ",1
"Thankfully I read this for free from the Kindle Prime lending library I would not have wanted to actually spend money on this book.The beginning of the story with the older Jacob reminiscing was initially interesting but from there on the story went downhill for me.For one thing I could n't shake off a distinct impression of deja vu as I read this book . Then it struck me that I was strongly remindedof Stephen King 's The Green Mile when I read the old Jacob sections very old man in an old person 's home reminiscing about anoddly sentient animal while struggling to retain his identity in the face of unsympathetic caregivers . There 's even the PopeyeOlive Oyl8pager which is also referenced in The Green Mile . The JacobMarlenaAugust triangle was similar to the onein William Styron 's Sophie 's Choice volatile charming Jewish man with a personality disorder married to a younger sensitive woman theyoung man taken under the older man 's wing falling in love with the wife resulting in violence and upheaval.But beyond that the JacobMarlena love story was very poorly developed . Marlena never came together as a threedimensionalcharacter . When older Jacob talks about his wife and how she was his helpmeet at the beginning of the book a weak passive character such as Marlena was not the woman I pictured . I certainly do n't understand why he fell so deeply in love with her . The ending was feelgood but nevertheless unsatisfying due to its lack of realism.The few plus points in this book are the quirky secondary characters such as Walter and Camel . The thematic setting of a traveling circus was also interesting but after reading the author interview included with the Kindle version it seems a lot of the side plots and atmospheric color were lifted largely unaltered from actual instances the author read or heard about while researching the book.Given the hype I did n't expect a book that I will barely remember in another month except for its similarity to other better works . ",1
"Thoroughly entertaining . I really enjoyed this book from beginning to end . From the first chapter I loved how the author transitioned from present day and back . I learned about traveling circuses and now I want to know even more ! ",3
"One of the most entertaining piece fiction I 've read in the past 12 months . During postdepression era the protagonist Jacob is left penniless after his parents ' sudden death . Completely aimless he jumps the first train he sees and literally lands in a circus train plunging him headfirst into a fascinating world filled with performers of all shapes and talents a miserly ringmaster a beautiful horse trainer and a liquordrinkingPolishtongued elephant named Rosie.Sara Gruen does an incredible job of incorporating history and urban legends paralysis that afflicted thousands from drinking Jake an alcohol substitute concocted during The Prohibition the humongous dead hippo that was preserved in formaldehyde to fool thousands of viewers pickled elephant.I highly recommend this book just sit back and let yourself get lost in this strange and fascinating story . ",3
"This was a great bookhad a hard time putting it down at night.Now to see if the movie is half as good ! ! ",4
"I enjoyed this book but I hate to say it I enjoyed the movie more . The story is lovely an old man reminiscing of his days in the traveling circus . Somehow the story just tells better visually . I found the use of present tense in the book just does n't work . I felt bored in parts where the author used unnecessary details during action sequences . Overall it 's an original idea so kudos to the author for that ! ",2
"I was n't sure about getting this book but once I started reading itI did n't want it to stop . It was heartwrenching in many ways . I wasso sorry that the family failed to see past the old man 's age butthe ending made up for it all ! ",4
"This is one of the best books I have read in a while . I loved the characters and the talent of the author to intertwine them with the story line . I could not put the book down and hated when it ended . I have not seen the movie yet and am not sure I want to since I enjoyed the book so much . I would highly recommend it . ",4
"Loved this bookkinda kept you on your toesgoing from Old to young but was totally enthralling and somewhat historical what a rough kind of life to have lived . Want to see the movie but glad I read the book first . Yeah for KindleI have n't read a book in YEARS . ",4
"This was a tremendously fun and interesting read not to mention educational too . The whole travelling circussideshow thing has always fascinated me so it was interesting to find a novel with that as it 's backdrop . The characters felt very real and I found myself reading far past my bedtime because I wanted to see what was going to happen next.The only dissapointing part of the book to me was at the very end . I can see how some people like things to be tied up in a nice little bow but to me it was so implausable that it almost ruined the whole reading experience . ",3
"What a ride ! Well written with exquisite detail . The characters are as rich and colorful as the romance of the circus itself . What child has not dreamed of running away to join the circus ? I could n't put this book down until the last page read . This story has everything romance villians murder mystery friendship compassion.oh yes and an elephant . Wonderful wonderful end . Thank you Ms. Gruen . ",4
"This is not just a good summer read . It 's a good no make that excellent allseason read . I wo n't go into the plot because other reviewers have done it and done it well . Suffice it to say this book had me in its clutches from beginning to end and the story has stayed with me ever since that last page was turned . In addition to Rosie the most endearing elephant this side of Horton and Dumbo Gruen 's circus characters grab hold of you and refuse to let go . I was particularly enamored of KinkoWalter and the way his relationship with Jacob developed over the course of this compelling story.The writing is rich and fulfilling full of texture . This novel will engage all your senses . You will see the big top and hear the guys pounding in the stakes . You will smell the animals the aroma of fresh sawdust and breakfast cooking . And you will feel the same pleasure and pain the characters feel as they take your hand and lead you into the world of a Depression era circus.As for how Gruen a young woman managed to get herself into the head of a 93yearold man ? Well is n't that what superbly talented authors do ? Transport you to places you never thought you 'd ever go ? I 'll be looking forward eagerly to her next novel . ",4
"Jacob Jankowski is an old man now either 90 or 93 years old but his youthful memories of life as a veterinarian with the Benzini Bros Most Spectacular Show on Earth remain vivid especially when a traveling circus camps just outside the grounds of his assisted living care facility . All those he cared about during his circus days Marlena the bareback rider Rosie the elephant Camel the roustabout Walter the dwarf and Bobo the orangutan are dead now but they glow with life in Jacob 's memory . It 's true his memories are not always pleasant . His years with the circus were depression years for the country with circuses failing on all sides . If you read this book you 'll see a side of the circus you probably never imagined its rigid caste system of performers vs working men skipped paychecks long days and longer nights jealousy madness and death . But you 'll also find beauty love and great kindness especially to some remarkable animals.Oh and the ending is quite wonderful if perhaps a bit fanciful . A grand book about the big top . Do n't miss it . ",4
"I loved Water for Elephants . I have always been interested in circus folk and their lives behind the scenes . This story follows a young vet 's life working with the circus during the depression years . The great depression also interests me so the book fit me to a tee ! ",4
"I have to agree with a lot of the mediocre and low star reviews . As many have said it is a very interesting subject but it could have been done much better . I 'll preface this by saying that I hardly ever read contemporary fiction so perhaps I 'm just not used to the modern style of writing . Most fiction I read is from the era when a book could not be published if there was too much obscenity or if it was too graphic.Nonetheless here 's where I felt this novel fell shortAs others have noted it felt too contemporary . Some of the language did n't seem to fit the times . I know the f word and other swearing has been around forever but I almost never hear people from that generation use it . Also young Jake laments being a virgin so much but from talking with people who came of age before the sexual revolution it was pretty much expected that one would remain that way until marriage . Even Hugh Hefner was a virgin until his mid 20s.The character of Jake was not convincing . I did n't get a good sense of who he really was as a young man and the young Jake and the old Jake could have been two different people as far as I could tell.I did n't find the old Jake to be very symphathetic . I felt bad for him for being trapped in a nursing home but he gave the nurses a hard time and picked fights with another male resident which canceled out a lot of sympathy I would have had for him . Also I had trouble with Jake 's situation . If he could n't even remember his family members who came to visit or the names of the nurses who took care of him how come he could always remember the names and details of his fellow residents with no problem ? A lot of reviewers had trouble reading the scenes about animal cruelty . I love animals but I did n't have that much trouble reading them because I was n't really convinced by the writing.As many others have said the ending is unrealistic . Some people may not be bothered by this but that 's one thing that irks me.On the positive side it was entertaining . It captured my interest and I was curious to see how it ended . ",2
"I dislike strange sexual behavior but most of all I hate killing and mistreatment of animals and other humans . I just did n't look into the book far enough to realize these things were written about . ",0
"Definitely a good read I got through it in a weekend but I would n't read it again glad I read it once though . To be fair a book has to be REALLY good to get a 5 from me . ",3
"I am so tired of first person narratives so maybe my complaint about his book is n't objective . All the I I I I really got on my nerves . The movie was so much better because I did n't have to read the word I anymore . The book also contains a lot of offensive language which did n't seem to fit the era . The story line was interesting and moved along at a nice pace . ",2
"I have a soft spot for elephants and had compassion for this big one . Plus it is a wonderful well written love story with lots of action of the emotional kind . Great book ",4
"This story line captivated me from the first chapter . It had ALOT of swearing and graphic sexual content which I did n't enjoy having to wade through and skip over . I did n't think it added anything to the storyline and felt that it could have been left out all together.I found the author commentaries at the end to be most fascinating . It was interesting to read that the story line has some nonfiction events weaved into it . I you do n't mind filthy language and sexual content this is a great read . ",4
"Nothing about this book appealed to me . Not the subject matter nor the title nor the cover . Pfttt..nothing . A depressionera traveling circus ? What could be more.depressing ? My sister delivered into my hands one day and said Read it . And I did . I read it while cooking . I read it while eating . I read it when I should have been sleeping . I read and read and wanted to read more . Now I hand it to you and say Read it . You wo n't be sorry . ",4
"I really enjoyed this book . While reading it I felt the author either had experience with a circus did a great job researching the material . The old man telling his life story caught my imagination right away and I could n't put it down . Loved the detail and the story line . I felt I was back in history . ",4
"Jacob Jankowski is 93 years old . He is as sharp as a tack and somewhat cantankerous as many of us will probably be if we live so long . At 93 he resides in a nursing home not his choice but probably for the best . Now the circus has come to town and setup within view of the home causing great excitement.Jacob was a member of the traveling Benzini Brothers Circus during the Great Depression and his memories of those days are still clear . Water for Elephants tells the story of how Jacob lost everything while finishing his final year at Cornell Veterinary School and joined the traveling circus.Gruen tells the story in two parts going back and forth from the past to the present time in a way that is easy to read and very entertaining . Her extensive research into traveling circuses and elephants makes this a very good readThis is one of those books that once you start reading it you wo n't want to put it down . It has been on the NY Times Best Seller List for 76 weeks as of today and it is still ranks in Amazon 's Top 100 after nearly two years since its publication . If you enjoy this book you might also likeThe Sweet By and By A Novel by Todd Johnson . ",4
"I expected more substance but it 's not there . Still reasonably well written and easily readlike or with a light pinot grigio . ",2
"This is an immersive addictive intricately researched novel that transports the reader to dusty hardscrabble depressionera US . Young Jacob Jankowski flees his veterinarian final exams at Cornell when he learns of his parents ' accidental death . Faced with sudden poverty when the bank takes his parents ' possessions he starts walking with no destination in mind and jumps a circus train in the middle of the night . The inner world of the circus unfolds around him as he learns of the class divide between the workers and performers the fragility of the circus ' desperate illusions and the economic vulnerability of everyone on the show . He becomes the show 's vet and befriends monkeys tigers horses and one oppressed but ultimately triumphant elephant.Sara Gruen is a master of plot building to a suspenseful climax and weaving together her storylines with tidbits and gems from her research on American circuses . She respectfully explores her characters ' strengths and weaknesses ultimately delivering an honest and intricate portrait of a difficult time in US history . This book was a 100 % satisfying read . ",4
"Great book . bought this for my kindle and started it but am so busy I barely have time to read for pleasure . great book ",4
"This is the first book in a long time that I feel lives up to it 's hype . Never read this author before but that is about to change . I feel Jacob both as a young man and the man in the nursing home . Being of an age that usually is in a nursing home this is a great insight into them and I hope everyone who reads it will feel what I am feeling . ",4
"I really enjoyed reading this book . It is a great story . An interesting glance into the old circus life during the hay day for circuses . ",4
"This is a must read for any circus lover . If you have a thing for elephants this is your book . ",4
"I loved this book . An intriguing peek behind the scenes of a fictional circus in the early 20th century . I thoroughly enjoyed it wellpaced GREAT characters and an interesting plot . I highly recommend it ! ",4
"this book was recomeneded to me by a relative . we have an age gap and she is old enough to be my grandma . we both loved the book it is a good read for all adult ages . ",4
"Water for Elephants was a great book it had me flipping the pages whenever I had a spare moment . I would highly recommend this entertaining book ! ",4
"What a wonderful adventure ! I read this book in 2 days . From the first page I was charmed . The scenes played out so vividly in my head . I am thinking that in my old age someday I will think I was really there ! Just fabulous ! ! ",4
"it 's been a very long time that I do this see a movie AND buy the book ! ..that 's how much I just loved this story & I know the book is better.The movie is good I think Reese was miscast for some visceral feeling of mine ! That part is so meaty and I do n't know who but she did not fill the shoes for me..Patterson was incredible and the production incredibleCheers..TonyNYC ",4
"Loved this story ! I did read the book before I saw the movie . The movie was well done but of course the book has so many more details ! Read this book ! ",4
"Sara Gruen has penned a most enjoyable book about life in the circus . The story unfolds in two time frames from the firstperson point of view of Jacob Jankowski . As a twentythree year old vet traveling with the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth and as a ninetythree year old man confined to an assisted living facility and repulsed by the sight of his aging body his eversharp mind moves us effortlessly between the two time periods . We are told he is about to reveal a secret he has kept hidden for seventy yearsand what a story it is ! In 1931 a tragic accident takes his parents from him and leaves him alone and penniless in the midst of the Great Depression . The circus is both his salvation and his personal hell as he signs on to care for the animals . Jacob and the characters he encounters are drawn so vividly that you will remember them long after the last page is read Marlena the pinksequined star of the equestrian act her mercurial husband August who suffers with bouts of paranoid schizophrenia Walter the dwarf whose mother sold him to the circus and Camel the first member of the circus to befriend Jacob will all make you laugh and cry and cry again . But it is Rosie the lemonadestealing elephant who will steal a piece of your heart and cause you never to look at elephants in quite the same way again.Heartbreaking poignant and with a double surprise of an ending this amazing plot unfolds with actual circus stories the author tells us in her end note that she has taken from real life . Peppered with antique photos of longago circuses this is an amazing book not only of circus life but of a man coming to grips with his diminished capacity and the aging flesh surrounding his everyoung heart . A true joy for this reader and one I highly recommend . ",4
"I enjoyed this book so much it nearly read itself . Skillfully weaves in a mystery as well as some hard truths about bumming the rails during the depression . Does for the circus what Daniel Mannix 's Memoirs of a Sword Swallower did for carnivals . ",4
"Others have reviewed the store line much more in depth and better than I can here . I loved this book . Once I started reading it I did n't put it down . This is not a silly little beach read as it has been touted . It is more in depth than that.The characters were believable . They did n't do anything that was totally out of character once their basic personality was developed . The setting was realistic and interesting and a vital part of the story . The ending was surprising.Very well written . Very interesting . Worth the time to read and worth the money.Enjoy . ",4
"Just did n't like the story . I do n't think I even finished the book . Just not my kind of story . . ",1
"I enjoyed reading Water For Elephants very much . There is excitement love sadness and fills you full of empathy while reading . You begin to feel as though you are a worker on the carnival train going from town to town following the drama and excitement . One of the best books I have read . ",4
"I liked this story and I think others will too . It has a good plot and interesting characters . I just do n't consider it is one of the best books I 've ever read . ",2
"It has been a while since I read this but remember it as a great story with action love and experience in this occupation . ",4
"Probably was one of the last I know to read this but was well worth the waitsickened me how they treated the animals seemed like a realistic look into the circus life . sad but satisfying read . ",4
"Loved the book the setting reminded me of the HBO series Carnivale . Read the book in one day because I could not put it down . ",4
"Water for Elephants is truly an excellent read . The story is narrated by Jacob Jankowski well the 93 year old version and the 23 year old version . The young Jankowski joined a traveling circus in depressionera America after the sudden death of his parents . With his veterinary background Jacob is put in charge of the filthy underfed and sometimes abused animals . The Benzini Bros. traveling circus is everything one would imagine a circus to bedirty crazy and full of all kinds of different folks . Workers are apt to disappear in the night thrown from the train no longer able to be paid . It is obvious that Gruen did her homework on traveling circuses . Her terminology is spoton and her vivid description is exquisite . The stand out characters are August the animal trainer Marlena his wife and a performer in the circus and of course Rosie the elephant . Gruen weaves together a story that is at times hilarious heartwrenching touching warm sad and so moving . The ending is perfect and I could not have asked for a more enjoyable read . ",4
"Maybe I 'm missing the bandwagon no pun intended but all these reviews that say amazing best book I 've ever read etc. ? ? I do n't get that . I was drawn to the story and the characters and it was wellwritten . It was an easy read so I finished it in a day and a half . However I do n't consider it anything more than a fun readsomething good for the beach or the plane . I 'm defintely not seeing the hype . ",2
"An interesting way to showcase circus history & a way of life that is no more.Although this is a fictionalized account it was based on bits & pieces of fact from Circus History.The photographs were the best.They were a nice addition to the book.The nursing home dramatiein was a bit too much.I guess it was a play on the theme of running away to join the circusJust never heard of someone who ran away from a nursing home in a wheel chair to join the circus & was successful with it ! ",2
"Water for Elephants presents a story of a veterinarian 's life told from both his present and earlier life perspective . The way that the author switched between time periods was entertaining . I found myself experiencing a wide range of emotions from horror to curiosity to anger and then to happiness . I personally have never been to a circus so I do n't have any memories of my own to go by . However the author 's descriptions of the circus atmosphere and class system within the different groups makes it very easy to imagine just how life was living on that train traveling from town to town . I really enjoyed reading this book and look forward to the film version . ",4
"This is a book that you can read again and again and its like meeting old friends . The plot lines are well woven the characters are easily invested in and the ending satisfying . ",3
"A great read ! Warm and wonderful storytelling . Character color and story it 's all here ! Author of PUSH NOT THE RIVER Push Not the River and AGAINST A CRIMSON SKY Against a Crimson Sky A Novel ",4
"This book is so delightful . I cared about the characters right away Sara Gruen knows how to portray people well . The story was compelling and the world of circus people so different from the one the rest of us live in it was fascinating . ",4
"Sara Gruen 's Water for Elephants is one of those rare novels that will be read and reread discussed and enjoyed for many years by old and young alike . Destined to be passed among family and friends and back again until the tattered timeworn pages resemble the books beloved central character and narrator.Jacob Jankowski had studied Veterinary Medicine and was days from exams when his parents were killed in an auto accident . Alone frightened and penniless he hopped a train never intending to run away with the circus . It was the midst of the depression and life was hard . Joining the Benzini Brothers Circus would change his life again . From town to town day after day set it up tear it downthe freaks and geeks midgets and clowns worked ate lived and often died together . The harsh conditions are made even more unbearable by the greedy manager and his insane animal trainer . Yet somehow in the midst of despair friendships and laughter persevered . Although much of the laughter was alcohol induced during the height of the depression and prohibition you took what you could get.The narrator 's transition from the young circus vet to the elderly cantankerous nursing home resident is a wellcrafted bilateral view that pulls the reader into this fictional world and never lets go . Whether in his twenties admiring the beautiful equestrian performer Marlena and caring for the animals he lovedor in his nineties complaining about the indignities of old age the warm quick wit comes through loud and clear . From the big top to the nursing facility Gruen 's sharp threedimensional fictionally fluid characters will have you laughing out loud one minute mouth agape in disgust the next.Hurry hurry step right up readers and book lovers everywhere . If you hunger for a reading experience chock full of every conceivable emotion beautifully written and wholly engrossing Water for Elephants is a wondrous world where fact and fiction combine delivering the most memorable and pleasurable hours you will be spend with a book . Characters so sharply drawn and wrought with emotion that there nearly flow off the page.Armchair Interviews says If you only read one book this summer let this be it ! ",4
"I enjoyed this book but did not feel it quite lived up to the high ratings I based my purchase on . Part of its appeal was the promise of a circus story . And the story was very realistic in some ways detailing how difficult and unrewarding not to mention very dangerousthat life could be.Some of the most interesting and moving parts of the book were actually those that took place in the nursing home that Jacob now lives in remembering his youth with the circus . The author did a great job in describing the sadness loneliness and other problems that befall the very aged . Especially those nearly forgotten by their families . Their cold treatment at the hands of people who barely see these elderly souls as human is all too real having witnessed this myself when working in this type of facility . And another reason why I got out of nursing.The love story was soso and years were wrapped up too quickly at least for my taste . I looked forward to more stories of Jacob as the circus veterinarian . There was alot of potential there for interesting and moving stories about the animals but that aspect was barely touched upon . Rather it was more about Jacob 's obsession with the beautiful Marlena.I loved many of the interesting characters but always felt I did not quite know them in spite of their frequent appearances throughout the story . Walter the dwarf as an example . He was one of my favorite characters . I found myself wanting more of his own story but it was n't there.I would recommend this as a light summer read but would not look for more than an interesting diversion and brief look into the world of the circus folk when the animals were still transported by train and when the circus coming to town was the biggest news of the month . ",2
"The story was thoughtful and wellwritten . The presentday Jacob was actually more compelling and believable than the Jacob of the main remembered story.If you liked the circus world information and have a high tolerance for some graphic content read Gary Jennings ' Spangle which has been split into three separate books for paper back a rich detailed story of a circus in postCivil War America and Europe.Spangle ",3
"Did n't love this one as much as the other reviewers . Some good moments with dialogue and plot but that I just did n't find myself enthralled by the story . It was a little slow at times . Kept putting it down and picking it up . Just all right . ",2
"I saw all the great reviews so I gave Water for Elephants a try.I really enjoyed this book . Masterful story line and clever characters.It was a fast read . I can hardly wait to see the movie ! ",3
"Wow I loved this sorry of the 1920 's circus lifeI also loved how it related to a person 's life in a nursing home . The surprise ending was just right for me as I like to be uplifted and happy with the ending . this writer is fabulous and I will want to read more of her work ! ",4
"I will never forget when I read this I could not put it down and it stayed with me for days . It is fantastic story with fantastic characters . Sara Gruen has created something magical.If you enjoy Water for Elephants I also recommend The Night Circus by Erin Morganstern . ",4
"I really enjoyed this book . It was slow to get into but with all these great reviews I pressed on . It was worth it . Read it ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ",4
"I thoroughly enjoyed this book . I likes how the author would go from present date to the past . I thought the plot was very exciting and interesting . From the title of it I would have never have guessed what this book was really about . I would definitely recommend this boom to everyone . It was an easy read and I think many would enjoy it too . ",4
"I looked at the reviews before purchasing this book I thought I would love it . As it turned out I had a hard time getting into the book . Once I finished it I watched the movie to tie in the parts that I did n't get . It was not horrible just not my taste . ",2
"I absolutely loved this book it will definitely be a reread . I read this book before I saw the movie but knowing which actor was playing what character I could definitely create a mental image of them and it definitely made the story that much better . If you 're one of those who likes to see a movie before reading the book or just seeing the movie that will work just fine but I 'd still recommend reading the book . ",4
"This book is a grotesque fairytale . It 's both charming and disturbing and it will stay with you for a long time after you put it down . ",4
"This book is a good read . Long chapters but puts you right in the circus with Jacob and Marlena and Rosie . ",3
"I really wish publishers would rate books like they do movies . I got to the porn part and once again threw another book in the trash unfinished . Problem is these books are good and the authors do n't need to put the trashy parts in they choose to . Garbage in Garbage out . Guard your heart and your mind do n't buy this book . Buy something else or wait for the PG version . ",0
"It was mentioned in the public radio and on the New York Times list means should be readable . I guess for regular folks who only dream of running away and joining the circus it was entertaining and everything but was annoyng when narrative style sort of goes back and forth in between Frank McCourt to James Frey . I am . I do . I think . I feel . I I I. I do n't know I am less than half of Jacob 's age but have been lived and worked in the circus I just could n't feel or smell sawdust in it at all . I could n't see any character 's face clearly . As author notes in the end it is a patchwork of cut and pasted information from her research . I wish the author did bother to travel with the show any show awhile . Then she would have understand that big top and cookhouse ready to serve hot meals wo n't go up in length of just 5 paragraphs even with all the machineries of millennia let alone of 1930s.There should be generations of elephants handlers to be found in Sarasota and their stories are worth listening to than museum facts that is if you can get in to their doorsteps and able to decode their language.I understand this book is a fantasy . If you want to smell sawdust try based on true historic circus figures The Final Confession of Mabel Stark Modoc The True Story of the Greatest Elephant Ever Lived or watch Dumbo in retro circus.In the category of fiction even though it caused lot of pain to people all the characters are based too obviously I 'd give Roustabout some credit because its author was actually there though not on the tent crew as the heroine.Congratulations anyway how about donating profit and future movie deal $ to circus vet . funds for humans and animals ? ",2
"In a time of difficulties and in a place where exotic things are a rule Sara Gruen sets her novel Water for elephants . The story starts with moment of violence and from then on is tolerable narrative mess . The main character is a veterinarian student who drops school joins a circus during the Depressionera finds love hate and whatever may crosses his way.The lessons he learns are so valuable that decades later living in a home for old people he can still perfectly recall them and pass them along . He is Jacob a strange figure who is no longer an alien when he runs into people even stranger than him . Tod Browning 's movie Freaks comes to mind but Gruen never reaches the same level.The only redeeming point in the book are the old black and white circuses pictures with scenes from a bygone era . On the other hand Gruen 's heavyhanded prose lacks the sparkling that would enhance Water for elephants . Her storytelling abilities are more focused in the tell when it should be the showing missing the chance of creating a whimsical story . We learn every step Jacob takes from a to c even the unnecessary b . With cardboard flat characters the aninals end up stealing the show . These excesses tone down the narrative and keep the novel from reaching a higher artistic level . ",1
"This book was very moving for me . The way Gruen writes about the older character seemed so very well done . Even though I am not old I felt older reading those passages . Gruen moves back and forth from present day to the past very smoothly and it is always a seamless transition for the reader . Great story good characters loved Rosie the elephant . Very thought provoking and I really adored the old carny photographs sprinkled throughout the book . Never thought I would enjoy a depression era book but this one was really well done . ",4
"I avoided this book for a while due mainly to the overhype by various celebrity talk show hosts . In the end however it is worth all the acclaim . Excellent reading wonderful book . ",4
"The book was an excellent read . It was very well written and gave you a good picture of life in the circus in the l930 's . ",4
"The imagery of the circus was incredible . The story of the ninety year old version of Jacob was compelling and touching but I found the actual story of the younger Jacob J. lacking depth and development . Overall it was an ok read and I 'm glad I read the book . ",2
"Ninetythree year old Jacob Jankowski now living in a nursing home reminisces about the summer of 1931 which he spent with the Benzini Brothers circus . The inner workings relationships conflicts of circus life are so well described in this novel with such interesting detail you really feel like you are there . Following the events of Jacob 's life made me laugh and cry . I really loved this book and am looking forward to seeing the soontobereleased movie . ",3
"I would give it a 3 star up till the last 3 or 4 chapters . It ends good and that 's why I gave it 4 stars . I like a book that you cant put down . But I did n't get that with this book ! But it 's cute ",3
"As a child in Memphis Tn . the most exciting time in my childhood life was when the days the circus came to town . My father loaded me my two brothers and my sister into the car and off we went to the Clyde Beatty circus under the big top . Water for Elephants brought these memories back as though they were yesterday . I read the book over a 3 day period and really enjoyed it . It 's a terrific story that I would recommend to all my friends . ",3
"i just got done reading this and i was enjoying it till about half way thru . then it became immensely boring to me and i kdpt reading only to say that i finished it . i really do n't think it had much of a plot and i feel the ending was kind of just wrapped up quickly . it started out very hopeful but in the end not one of my favorite reads . ",2
"I liked the book although a bit depressing and if you are an animal lover some of the references to how the animals in the circus are treated can make you a bit uncomfortable . What I did n't like was the ending it ended quickly and on this high note that seemed forced do n't want to spoil anything for anyone but I was expecting the end to be a bit more realistic not feel good movie ending ",2
"WATER FOR ELEPHANTS by Sara GruenThis is a marvelous book that covers the two bookends of the long adventurous life of Jacob Jankowski going back and forth from him as a ninetyplusyear old in an assisted living facility to him thinking back to his days working on the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth a circus that moved around the country in its own train.He is all alone in the nursing home with most the employees viewing him as more trouble than he is worth except for one wonderful nurse named Rosemary who shows him respect and compassion and is for all practical purposes his only friend at this point in his life . While he has many family members his children are now old themselves and the family in general has moved on without him . They take turns visiting him but he gets the feeling their hearts are not into it.Mr . Jankowski maintains his sanity by thinking back to his days as a young man in his prime . The story into the past begins with him finishing up veterinary school at Cornel . His plan is to join his father 's practice but just before he finishes his final exam he gets the news that his parents have been killed in a car wreck . To add to the tragedy he finds out that his parents were bankrupt and losing their family house and everything they own a result of the bad economy and them putting all their money into Jacob 's education at Cornel . He responds by joining the Benzini Brothers Greatest Show on Earth.His journey down memory lane provides us a rich assortment of protagonists and antagonists and a loving touching account of the animals that were under his care as the official veterinarian of the circus . He falls in love with the star of the circus but she is married to a brute having been sold off to him while she was still a child . Jacob has constant run ins with her lover as the man is in charge of training the animals for the circus acts . The man is a barbarian often mistreating the animals his wife the workers and he and Jacob rumble several times.The owner of the circus is a twobit conman that often physically abuses his workers and more often than notit seemsfails to pay them . This of course leads to great friction with the working men some of whom disappear during some of the train rides thrown off the moving train under the orders of the mad man in charge of the circus.Along the way the circus picks up a prized elephant named Rosie who does not respond to any commands and is judged to be a worthless animal with an alarming appetite . The trainer responds by beating the elephant on several occasions . Jacob intervenes and figures out the elephant responds to Polish which provides the circus new life with Rosie emerging as the star of the circus along with Jacob 's love Marlena.There are several wonderful side stories that outline the struggles of the wonderful array of characters that make up the circus crew . They travel around in the Depression attempting to survive when most circuses are folding their tents and going out of business.I loved the ninetyplusyear old Jacob and especially his flashbacks to earlier days that showed the wonders dangers opportunities underhandedness splendors and tragedies of life on the train circus . The story tells how difficult it is to age to become old to be viewed as no longer capable of living a normal life . It also is a story that tells us to follow our dreams when we are young and do all we can to make them come true.Ms . Gruen provides a fitting ending to the book . I will not spoil it for you but you are certain to like and appreciate it.This is a wonderful book that I highly recommend.Hey Joe Jamaica Series ",4
"Sure Water for Elephants has been around and even turned into a movie but I 've only just now read the book . I 'll have to go and see the movie . . . if only to see the director 's interpretation of the glorious scenes of circus life this book conjures up in the reader 's mind.Judging by the number of people who took time out to write reviews for this book I must say it lives up to the critical acclaim in just about every way possible . At least for this reader it did . Every writer knows that in order to keep the readers ' attention a novel must have tension on every page . This novel is almost the illustration of that rule . I loved taking the trip . I highly recommend this book to almost anyone . I think it will become a classic.This is masterful writing and I 've passed it on to my sister who is now devouring it whole . Congratulations to Sara Gruen for producing this stunning pageturner . I absolutely loved it ! 5 Stars . Great Read ! ",4
"I enjoyed this book a lot despite the fact that some of the stuff said does n't match the era in which it was written . I was n't as bothered by the small issues as some of the other reviewers were apparently . It is a work of fiction after all . Sure there were quite a few cliches but not to the point of distraction . I liked the animals and their personalities namely Rosie the star of the show . She stole my heart and when she was a victim of violence my heart broke for her.Having the old man relive his memories of the circus was very compelling and tied the story of then and now together nicely . The ending made me cry but not why you 'd expect . ",3
"With all the hype about this book I was expecting moremore plotand a more interesting main character . And really it reads like a script . So often the author does too much explaining about how each character is sitting their reactionetc . as if in preparation for a moviewith too much explaining how the actors should perform.I do like the depression era and the circus theme which drew me to the book.I am looking forward to seeing the movie but mostly because of the actors in it.All in all I didnt care for the authors way of writing . But I think it will make for an interesting movie . ",3
"Required no thinking . Boring and trite . I ca n't imagine why this book is so popular . In fact I read it a few years ago but it popped up here and I wanted to review it now to give another point of view to the multitudes who adored it . ",1
"I loved this book and did n't expect to because I 've never been a fan of the circus . The novel seamlessly alternates between two periods of Jacob 's life beginning when he was in his early 20s having lost everything after the death of his parents the impetus for his joining the circus and as an elderly man in a nursing home.I was especially moved by the author 's clear respect for older people through her portrayal of Jacob and the other residents of the nursing home . The conversations between Rosemary and Jacob were deeply touching and I loved the way Rosemary gently explained to Jacob why the man might have lied about carrying water for elephants at the circus . Oh and the ending was just beautiful . I was rooting for Jacob all the way ! I was also fascinated by some of the historical bits such as redlighting and Jake Leg a disease some people got usually poor people from drinking Jamaican Ginger Extract during the Prohibition Era . And I ca n't forget Rosie the amazing elephant and where she spent her final years This was a book I could not put down ! I guess the only ",3
"This book was suggested to me by a friend and I was n't sure I would like it . As soon as I started reading I could n't put it down . In fact I read it in about a week . This particular book earned it 's place on the New York Bestsellers list for a reason.An elderly man looking back on the past and how it has shaped him now . The book is set in the present day as well as the early 1930 's . It paints the picture of exactly what I would think a traveling circus would be during that time . It is full of drama within in the reigns of the circus as far as the everyday workers performers and animals . From cover to cover the reader does not know exactly what to expect . I would suggest this book to anyone.One of the best books I have read in some time . I ca n't wait to see the movie ! ",4
"I normally do n't select bestsellers for reading pleasure they so often disappoint . Had my book club not selected this for discussion I probably would not have read it . But I am so glad I did . The book is well writen not just a good story but excellent writer 's craft . Any person over fifty with any empathy at all will identify with the story teller . Younger people will identify with the main characters in the circus story . I am not particularly interested in circus history but this was fascinating . The ending is especially wonderfulfanciful but wonderful . ",4
"I could n't really get into the book . Still have not seen the movie either but to me the book starts out slow and I hate books like that ",1
"This book is as advertised . I meant to pick it up a while ago and then bought it after seeing previews of the movie . Highly recommend . ",4
"It took me a bit to get into this book . I 'm not sure why but mostly it is probably because my days have started out so busy I do n't get around to reading til I 'm already exhausted . Once I got into it I could n't stop reading . I stayed up too late I read until I fell asleep and then got irritated when I woke up and did n't have time to finish the book . It really only took a few hours it was just finding those few hours to read.Great summer read beautiful love story and definitely makes me want to FINALLY see a circus . Yes I 'm 35 and have not been to a circus that I remember ! SPOILER ALERTDo n't read any further if you have n't read the book or get upset by spoilers . Because this will give a few things away.First a preface I love the line because it reminds me of the kind of person I want in my life . Faced with a 10ft thick 100ft tall wall of obstacles he KNOWS he 's on the losing end but does n't give up or freak out.My favorite line in the book Dear God . Not only am I unemployed and homeless but I also have a pregnant woman bereaved dog elephant and eleven horses to take care of.This line made me giggle out loud and it brightened my whole day . ",4
"This is the perfect example of a good book really being about HOW the story is told . It 's a good story but the author 's skill in making this a captivating read is undeniable . Read it ! ",4
"True to Amazon.com order came on time and in perfect condition . If you have not read this book read it ! ! Had read in on my Kindle and wanted hard copy for my book shelves . ",4
"I 'm not a real fan of fiction only because fiction does not keep me tuned in to the story line . Often the subject matter rambles on before the story line gets going when you finally know what you are reading about.Water for Elephants is a well written novel . The title fascinated me to begin with and excerpts led me to believe this was going to be a good read . I was right ! The story line is never boring it 's uncomplicated and keeps you tuned in to events as they unravel . So well done . I encourage anyone who is an avid reader to buy a copy . You wo n't be disappointed . ",4
"What a wonderful read ! ! Once I got into the book I was lost on a train in a circus and I never wanted to leave my new world . I really enjoyed this book and would reccomend it to everybody that enjoys a good read . I was also excited that the train went through my towns of Keokuk Hamilton and Burlington how exciting ! ! ! ! ! ",4
"Good book . I did n't care how accurate the information was . I found it hard to put it down . ",3
"This really is an excellent book with an interesting story and wellconceived details . I listened to the audio version which was particularly well acted . My complaint with the book is that it is blatantly antiJewish . The circus leaders who are described as Jewish are mean and spiteful making the lives of the workers a living hell . Why did Ms. Gruen need to assign a religion to them ? I found this really offensive and played into negative Jewish stereotypes . My other complaint with the book is that the two Jacobs do n't seem like the same person I 'm assuming they are although I 'm not quite finished with the book . One is loving and mildmannered the other cantankerous and bitter . Can these really be the same person ? ",2
"Water for Elephants is the breakout runaway hit first novel by Sara Gruen . It 's a classic down on his luck boy meets out of his league girl and they fall madly in love story . Except the story is set in a cruel and gritty circus world of the Depression which only makes the story more interesting.Gruen 's story is well told and written and she does a good job portraying the everyday cruely of circus life during the hard times of the Great Depression . She creates several interesting and memorable charactersfrom the scrappy Camel to the manic August . And several of the circus scenes allow the reader to paint a vivid mental picture which is always key to a fascinating novel.I 'll admit that I was probably the last person in America to read this book and as a result I 've been hearing about how fantastic it was for three years . Unfortunately the book had a hard time living up to these expectations . I enjoyed it but it was n't the great romancehistorical novel I was expecting . I would still recommend that others read it particularly to compare to the recent movie since I thought the book had a much stronger storyline . ",2
"Good for a beach read but none of these characters are memorable . This book doesnt hold a candle to Racing in the rain . ",2
"The setting and writing of this novel give it a wonderful atmosphere . The only thing holding it back is the romance not that I did not root for the conclusion but would have enjoyed more of a reason for the couple to be together besides circumstance . That being said the characters are well built and the world the inhabit fascinating . ",3
"A truly fascinating novel for those of us old enough to remember going to the circus in small towns during the summer and now old enough to share the anxiety and depression of aging it covered the whole gamut . Only the treatment of both animals and those on the low end of the pay scale could be considered distracting from the good memories . ",4
"I thoroughly enjoyed this book a perfect summer read . The ending was a heart jerker but made you feel good . I say you should like the circus but you may just learn to through this book . I 'm old enough to remember the traveling circus coming to our small town and I fear that is going to be a thing of the pasttoo bad . ",3
"This is a book I can not forget it stirred me deeply . Yes the story telling is brilliant and extremely well written the parts about the depression and the circus are fascinating and the ability of a young female author to give voice and depth of character to an old man in his nineties is extraordinary he is one of literature 's most memorable characters ! But for me there is something which surpasses even all of this . Gruen touched on and developed a reality with which it is so difficult for most of us to come to grips that is how the strong virile resourceful young man in his twenties continues to reside in the decrepit rotting body of the stooped weak old man . She has drawn so clearly the ungraspable mystery of youth emerging into old age the spirit of the person masked by the wrinkled cloak of the elderly . Bravo Sara . Well done ! ",4
"Like many who were critical of this book I truly did want to love it . However the writing was simple and flat the characters lacked depth or conviction and the ending was a huge let down . Jacob was infuriating as he claimed to love these animals and then becomes sexually sidetracked while his Rosie was being beaten half to death . It made me sick to my stomach . Over and over he continued to behave like a helpless child while this animal was brutalized . Time and again he is either incredibly violent or he is impotent and seemingly defenseless . In the end each conflict is suddently and hastily resolved with little authenticity . What a shame as this could have been a deeply moving and engaging story . ",1
"An enjoyable read . The background of the circus did not deflect from relating to the clients . Seeing the past through the eyes of the 93 year old protagonist was wonderful . ",3
"Book Was Great . Easy to read & follow . Circus Drama page turner with a love story . I thought Rosie was brilliant ! ! ",4
"I read this book on my Kindle . It was the first ebook I ordered avout 2 years ago . I do n't know why my review has been so delayed but this truly is a marvelous love story ! No wonder it was on the bestseller list for so long . I would recommend reading the book before you see the movie as the author 's ability to describe the scenes and emotions is a fascinating read . ",4
"This book was a fantastic read absolutely wonderful . I was hooked from the moment I began reading and did n't put it down until I was finished with it ! ",4
"This story is now in my top 10 best loved stories . Now that says something ! ! ! ! Jacob Jankowski is a cranky but very likable 93 yr old man who lives in an assisted living center.He is strong willed and has opinions on so many of the other people who live in the centre with him . His body has degenerated and he does n't want to look in the mirror any more as he does not reconise himself anymore . He becomes the trouble maker of the group as his mind is sharp not like his degenerated body.Jacob remembers the circumstances under which he found himself homeless and travelling with the Benzini Brothers Circus . He alternates between the past and his day to day living with his coworkers of the circus going weeks without being paid and some nights some workers would disappear during the night the bosses would organise for them to be thrown off a moving train . He sleeps on a horse blanket on the train floor just thankful for a meal and a job.1931 is a hard time during the depression and everyone will do anything just to survive.The world could n't be any tougher for this young man.This is one of the most moving stories i have ever listened to on Audio cd.A must for everyones collection . ",4
"this author is a master story teller and she had me from the first . The structure of the book is captivating back and forth from the nursing home where the main character lives out his old age to the fascinating life he has led as a veternarian for the circus and his love affair with the main act . and that is only the beginning . It is the story of coming of age in a most unconventional setting . I learned so much about the inner workings of a circus . So why oh why did the author end the book on such a maudlin unrealistic note . Sarah Gruen forced a happy ending on a story that deserved a more intelligent finale . Still it is deffinately worth the read . ",3
"I just finished reading Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen . It was one of my most favorite reads to date and I read alot of books ! I loved how the book started in the nursing home with the older Jacob and how he reveiled how it felt to be old and most of the time forgotten . His family viewed it as a duty to go and visit him..And then it switches to a young Jacob and tells the story of his adventures working in a circus . For anyone who wanted to run away to the circus as a child you will definately love this book . I could not put it down . It is exciting one minute and has you on the edge of your seat and the next it is endearing and makes you feel like you really know the characters . I give this book 5 stars and if you want a really good read you will do the same . ",4
"After Riding Lessons which I loved and Flying Changes which was a huge disappointment to me I was not sure what I would find in Water for Elephants . Wow what a great read ! Research does pay off hugely when it enables a writer to place the reader inside another world so easily the world of the circus . This was a world totally foreign to most of us but now so familiar thanks to Sara . This book satisfied my three requirements transportation take me away from all this levitation lift my spirits and leave me thinking good thoughts and infiltration let me get inside the characters so I feel I really know them . Reading Water for Elephants is time wellspent . I 'm happy to know Sara is working on a fourth book . I 'll be first in line to buy it . ",4
"Great summer read ",4
"Quite delightful for all ages teens and adults a good book to give as a gift a surefire read . Barbara Pontecorvo ",4
"On a scale of one to ten I rate this book a ten . It is a very unusual story and makes for a good satisfying read . The characters really come alive in this book and you can almost picture the circus . This would make a great movie ! ",4
"I was reluctant to read this book because I 'm not a fan of the circus . While there is animal cruelty in here you also see how people who traveled with the circus were treated in much the same way as the animals . The ending is a nice surprise . Jacob and Rosie will stay with you for a long time . ",4
"I thought this book would be outstanding by all the really good reviews it got . But I only read about 3 12 chapters and called it quits . I just thought it was very dull reading . I thought perhaps I would try again at some point to read it..but after thinking about that idea for a whileI decided that I would n't try reading it again . I will say I was disappointed I will also say I would not suggest to anyone to read this book . ",0
"I really loved this story especially the ending . I really enjoyed hearing about circus life which surprised me I 'm not a fan of the circus at all . I thought Sara Gruen did a great job telling this story but I would have like to have seen a little more character development . It also had a little extra appeal for me as the story starts out in Ithaca NY not far from where I grew up and not far from where I live now . ",3
"I could n't put this book down from the first page to the last I was swept away with every detail of Circus life and then back to the reality of Mr. Jankowski . I would recommend this book highly for anyone who enjoys stories of the past put against today 's reality.Thank you for a good read . ",4
"I enjoyed this book as evidenced by the fact that it only took me a few days to read . The characters are engrossing and realistic . It is amazing that Sara was able to write the part of an old man with such realism . When I read a book I also like to learn well researched real facts . This book did not disappoint in that area . The history is interesting and accurate . The end of the book is satisfying . If you would like to get lost in a great book this is a good choice . ",4
"This book is for those aching for just a good story to read . A great piece of fiction . Set in the Depression there are intriguing indepth and sometimes horrific details about Circus life intertwined in a simple but classic love story.you will love to turn the page to find out what else can happen to the character.Dont wait to read this ! ! This book is a sure thing . ",4
"I was a bit hesitant about reading this book I kept reading that it was about circuses and I really did n't think I had too much of and interest . Boy was I wrong . It starts with a murder and winds and weaves you through the story of life in the traveling circus and back to present day in a nursing home . The book had my attention from page one and still has me even though I finished reading it . There is humor love murder and friendship and a whole lot of history about the circus and circus life making this book a well rounded engaging read . ",4
"I think this is the first book I have read just because everyone else seemed to be reading it . Usually that is not a very good recommendation . I am glad I did not miss it because of my rather arragant opinion of other peoples reading tastes . ",4
"I loved this story . The story is entertaining and the reading is relaxing . I highly recommend this book . ",4
"Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen is an utter delight . I read a library copy for my book club but after I finished I promptly ordered three copies for my father for a favorite aunt and for my husband . I had to restrain myself from buying more.The book is narrated from the point of view of Jacob Jankowski a ninetyplus year old man living in a nursing home . He is unhappy with everything about his current situation in life . He constantly flails against the everypresent reminders that his body has degenerated so that he hardly recognizes himself . He 's become the troublemaking curmudgeon of the facility because his mind is fully alive and has not degenerated along with his body.When a circus comes to town and sets itself up across the street one of the old coots living in the same home brags that he used to work in the circus carrying water for elephants . This gets Jacob 's ire up . He knows you ca n't carry water to elephants . They drink too much ! The man is lying . Jacob knows the truth because he really did work in the circus . But those memories are long buried . Now that thoughts of this part of his past are awakened he starts thinking about those halcyon days of his youtha time when he learned quickly how to become a man.Thus the story of Jacob joining the circus when he was 23 during the heart of the Depression when he had nothing in the world he could call his own except promise inner strength and fortitude . The world could n't get any tougher for a young man . He learns quickly and the hard way about many of the most important lessons in life and he comes away from the experience a remarkably mature whole and admirable man.Twothirds of the book deals with chapters about Jacob as a young man in the circus . Onethird deals with Jacob in the nursing home . It is a proper balance and this construction adds to the tension of the story rather than detracts . You care about this man and root for him in both periods of his life.There is a marvelous feelgood ending full of great humanity . When you finish you are left with optimism and enthusiasm that sticks with you for a long time . I recommend this book highly . It is a book that can be appreciated by all ages in fact I think it would make an enjoyable and thoughtprovoking young adult titlebut for those men and women who actually went through the Great Depression this book is a treasure . Buy it for every one of those beloved survivors that you have in your immediate circle of friends and family . These people want for nothing material . It is hard to buy presents for them . But this book will be greeted by longlasting appreciation . ",4
"but I just could n't . Honestly it stressed me out . I was n't enchanted or transported just full of anxiety at the turn of every page . I read a lot of books and I review very few but this is a book I really wanted to love and had to force myself to finish . I was hoping for something more along the lines of Carter Beats the Devil but instead I got The Devil tortures Carter and his girl and Carter ends up alone in a nursing home . I just could n't get behind this story . ",1
"This one of those watch the movie before you read the book ! Cause I did it the other way around and kept waiting for things from the book ! I loved the book I read my sister 's copy and then decided I needed a copy of my own . And I am rereading it and loving it even more ! ",4
"A couple of years ago a friend gave me a copy of Water For Elephants . I put it aside until a few days ago at which time I thought I should probably read it . I was hooked from the very beginning and could n't put the book down . Although I have never been interested in elephants I fell in love with Rosie and her sweet personality . Did you know that elephants cry and that they have a huge hippocampus a brain structure that 's important in processing emotions ? After finishing the book I immediately Googled elephants to learn more about these intelligent animals . Water For Elephants has become one of my favorite novels . If you have n't read this one you are definitely missing a modern classic . ",4
"The book was easy 4 hour readthere is some vulgarity that was unexpected..but I would just say it 's not for grade school readers . There were parts that made me laugh and parts that nearly made me crythat 's good writing . ",4
"This is one of my favorite books ! I love it so much I gave it to 5 people as gifts ! ! ! ",4
"I purchased this book on someone else 's recommendation . It was not at all what I thought it would be but I did enjoy it and passed it on to someone else . The book is better than the movie . ",3
"I started reading Water for elephants after watching the movie trailer . I loved it and after going to the cinema I have to say that the novel is really really better . There are more elements than the love story the movie tells . The historical period is described well the characters are more interesting and Jacob 's everyday life is one of the best descriptions of what an old man thinks and feels when he is far from his family.It 's an amazing book and even if you 're not an english native speaker as I am it 's an easy read ",3
"Entertaining plot engaging characters portrayed in sufficient depth . I 've not seen the movie so I ca n't make that particular comparison . But I can vouch that the novel stands on its own . Makes me want to read another novel by this author . ",4
"I loved getting to know each character and could not put the book down . This is a must read for anyone . ",4
"This book is absolutely charming and endearing . It combines romance and hatred excitement and terror . It 's a well written story that goes back and forth from a sometimes cranky 90something year old man and his 23 year old self . I highly recommend it for teens and up . ",4
"This is about a circus around in the 30 's . It is a good book . You would like it too . I would recomment it . ",4
"This is such a delightful story . I laughed I cryed . I loved all the characters . It really gave you a peak into the lives of circus life and the difficulties they endure as well as the relationships . Great read whether hard copy or audio . I highly recommend reading it . ",4
"This book is fascinating . Not only a good book but a lesson on early 20th century America . Classically written ! ",4
"This is a good book and better than the movie as is often the case . I did really enjoy it . ",3
"It took me approximately 8 hours over the course of a week to read this garbage and in retrospect I can certainly think of things I would rather have been doing for that 8 hours like say setting my hair on fire or armwrestling a 400 lb orangutang . I reckon those activities would have been more fun and fulfilling.This is a truly bad novel . Truly bad . The writing is amateurish the dramatic tension poorly developed the dialogue awful and the character development is shallow and onedimensional . I could not get over how stilted and poor the writing was . Our newly orphaned hero Jacob Jankowski dropped out of Cornell before his final vet exam jumped a train containing the Benzini Bros travelling circus got taken on as the circus vet instantly fell hopelessly in love with one of the married showgirls despite spending barely any time alone with her took on a cookiecutter baddie to boot boo hiss ! and survived to live happily ever after to a ripe old age . So there 's the plot outline which initially showed some promise . Pity Ms Gruen did very little with it that did n't come across as a below par submission to a Creative Writing 101 Workshop . Probably one of the worst books I 've read this decade . Under no circumstances read this poor excuse for a novel . The fact that so many reviewers have given it 5stars is a mystery on par with the Bermuda Triangle . Is it collective hysteria ? I just do n't get it . ",0
"My husband read this book and really enjoyed it and he does n't read very often . Now I need to read sometime in the near future . ",4
"I can definitely see why this book gets five stars from a lot of readers it has fascinating period detail an involving if fantastical romance and plenty of action.So to explain my onlyfour stars I must confess I read the audiobook version and I was of two minds about it . Yes the details about circus life were interesting and the romance was gripping in a kind of 1930s way . But there were a lot of things that did n't make sense to me circuses are going broke right and left but the star performers appear rich wearing tuxedos and drinking champagne and for my money the bad guys were too bad and the good guys too entirely good . The minor characters the little person the hootch dancer etc . were more complete than the leads.It would make a heckuva film though drama chase scenes on the top of train cars etc.I also confess that the audio version may have added to my bad humor there was one fellow playing the older narrator who was really superb but the fellow reading the part of the young hero was whiny in the extreme what did she see in him ? . ",3
"This is a wellwritten cute story . I certainly achieved the ` suspension of disbelief ' that one looks for in a summer novel . I empathized with the main character and could picture him and the others . I feel like I know Jacob Jankowski both the younger version in shock from losing his parents and the older version who hates being treated like an invalid . Unlike some reviewers I am not old enough to remember the circus coming to town on the train and with a parade . In fact the circus experience from my childhood was in a large concert venue . Nevertheless Gruen allows me to imagine the big top in all of its grimy glory and picture all of the alcohol loving workers and performers smuggling their drinks on the train . What a nice escape . ",3
"This was a fascinating story of interesting times gone by . I could n't put it down . I loved the way the old man went back to recall the events of his young years . The circus story was so believable . ",4
"Water for Elephants was a fabulous book . I could not put it down . The photos of Circus life back in the 30 's added to the experience . You wo n't be disappointed with this book as it contained lots of action great characters and a wonderful love story between a young man and woman and their love of the circus animals.Water for Elephants A Novel ",4
"I read this book from the library before it was made into a movie I fell in love with it and that is why I purchased this book for my Kindle.. Great book ! ! ",4
"I am so very glad that my mom insisted I read this book . I typically shy away from stories about the elderly because it is a topic that affects me very deeply and can really be painful to read . But after I helped care for my 92 yearold grandmother in the week before her death my mom told me I had to read this and that I 'd love it . She was n't wrong.The story gripped me immediately with the scene in the menagerie tent . But I have to say that what I loved the most about this novel was the narrator Jacob Jankowski . I fell hard and fast for him from the very first page . because of this I purposely read this book slowly so that I would n't have to say goodbye to Jacob . Ms. Gruen did an amazing job not only portraying the life of this man and the interesting friends and enemies he makes while being the vet for a travelling circus but showing that the elderly have amazing stories to tell . It showed how dignity is in danger of being lost when elderly people are treated like children once they are of a certain age but also how so many simple things can bring that dignity back.This book was so wonderful and I found the ending to be uplifting and appropriate and extremely well done . I would n't have accepted any less for this wonderful amazing character . ",4
"I kept reading because I was hoping it would get better and redeem itself in the end but it never did . Rawness and grit do not substitute for depth . I appreciated the accurate perspective of an elderly person . ",1
"This author has captured the essence of what it must feel like to be an old man who is still sharpasatack and remembers with vivid detail a few short months of his long life . This book is written with clear attention to detail and descriptions of what life very well may have been like with a train circus during Prohibition and the Great Depression . In addition to the daytoday goings on there is the added element of several plot lines of a personal nature with feelings of love loss joy and sorrow . Each character is seen from Jacob 's point of view and drawn so clearly that you feel you know them personally . I want Jacob to be my friend and so will you ! Definitely a book I will be recommending to most everyone ! I only wish there had not been the need for a few relatively explicit scenes as those few make this book unsuitable for my 11yearold . She is a voracious reader and wants to be a writer . She could learn a thing or two about research and character development from this excellent and enjoyable book ! ",4
"I wo n't elaborate on the plot as others have taken care of that . Listening to this story is tremendous as it easily allows for the two voices of Jacob Jenkowski to be clearly heard and distinguished from one another . This book is a love story a history lesson a peek into different elements of humanity that have way too much realism . There were times I wanted to skip ahead because I did n't want to hear the unpleasantness taking place in the story . But of course I did n't . Because one has to endure some bad to appreciate the good . The love story is much more too than a man and a woman it involves the circus animals and how they instinctively know who is good and who is not . The history lesson reminds us of a lifetime ago which really is n't so very far away less than one hundred years and helps us appreciate how far we have come . The peek into a reality far removed from a life I live reminds me not to take any part of my current life for granted . This is a very rich novel and one that will stick with the reader long after the last page is turned . ",3
"I am going to be a bad person right now and say that I do not understand the big hype for this book . I liked it it was interesting and I think that carnivals during the Depression are a popular theme in some recent entertainment Carnivale The Night Circus and I can see why . This book is entertaining but it is not particularly deep or special . I listened to some of it on audio and that absolutely added to the story . ",3
"Very good storyline and book . I would recommend this book to everybody . Nice job on a great book . Thank you ",4
"I will be reviewing this book for our women 's book club . It was a joy to read a realistic book with such a sense of humor built in . The young narrator grows and matures and skillfully helps other people and animals as well . The ending is a surprise and another delight in a most charming read ! ",4
"This was an excellent book and revealed the helplessness of people during the depression years when there were no jobs and they had to accept terrible working conditions and cruel employers . ",3
"I really loved this book . I saw the movie before the book but it was one that once I saw the movie had to read the book . ",4
"I truly enjoyed this book . I loved Jacob as an older manremembering his youth . It was very well written and kept my interest from beginning to the end . I also enjoyed the notes at the end detailing her research experiences . I love ELEPHANTS and enjoyed the authors characterzation of Rosie . The people all had very interesting and different personalities . ",4
"Jacob Jankowski is about to take his final veterinary exams at Cornell University when his parents are killed in a road accident . He then discovers that his father has been working as a vet free of charge during these early depression years leaving Jacob penniless and unable to afford to stay at school to finish his exams . He hops a circus train which is going through the town and is hired as the show 's vet virtually unpaid by the avaricious circus owner and sleeping in a train carriage with horses and the circus little person . The cast of circus characters both performers and roustabouts as the workers are called provides an interesting back drop to a story of love manic hatred and cruelty especially on the part of one of the trainers who has charge of an elephant named Rosie . The story progresses right through Jacob 's life until his nineties when with his frail body but intact memory he relives his colourful past . It 's an entertaining read and the story the details of which have been thoroughly authenticated by the author makes a change from anything I 've read previously . ",3
"Did not like the book . I especially did n't like the fact that no one could stop the elephant abuse and did n't like the sex in it . Pretty crude . Too bad they had to add the graffic sex . It was n't necessary to the story ! ",1
"I did not like the language or the story . I have not finished the the book and have no interest in doing so ",0
"Jacob Jankowsky is 90or 93 . He can never remember . As the book begins he is a resident in an assisted living facility so I related to it right off having just spent 2 days with my motherinlaw at an assisted living facility . As Jacob begins to look backward we discover that he was orphaned as he was getting ready to take his exams for his veterinary license and join his father 's practice . When his parents are killed in an auto accident he is left with no money and through an accidental twist of fate he joins a circus where he becomes the resident veterinarian . Over the next four months he learns the good and the bad about circus life falls in love discovers the secret of the newly acquired stupid elephant and witnesses the one of the worst circus disasters in history.Gruen is a wonderful writer with a rich use of language which paints vivid pictures of a world most of us have never experienced . This is a riveting story with a couple of surprising twists at the end that I did n't see coming.I highly recommend this book . ",4
"Gruen not only tells a good story about the early circus trains but she also uses her research to add credibility . Her sophisticated style and vocabulary make for pleasurable reading . ",3
"I do n't know why but when I read a little blip somewhere about this book something told me I would really enjoy it . I mostly read psychological thrillers and this book was so different from anything I have ever read but I felt as if I was actually transported to the time and place of this unusual interesting read . My 90 year old Mom read it too and also loved it . It 's warm endearing and so well written . ",3
"The novel is sure a pleasant surprise . First I like how the author interlaces the novel between the perspective of the older and younger antagonists . Mr Jankowski is animated and adorable . I felt like I could really take a glimpse inside an old person 's mild . He is a young guy trapped in an old man 's body . Jacob is young and innocent but not as memorable as his older self . The adventure he had is almost like Tom Sawyer and Huck Finn . Sure there were times I was confused . It does n't seem so believable to have a college graduate jumping from one railcar to another and the sex scene is unnecessarily . I guess female readers demand certain rewards with reading romance novels . Spoiler Alert I still do n't understand why Uncle Al needs August for the circus . It seems like Uncle Al could have just replaced August with Jacob and the novel will shortened by half.I wish Ms Gruen all the best and am looking forward to her coming books . ",4
"Water for Elephants is a good read . The writer confesses to being thrilled to be writing something besides technical documents and this gives rise to minor annoyances some as trivial as the overuse of stare.The contrast of mores of the Depression Era to modern day is arrestingly authentic . Using 1930 's circus lingo is misleading a bull elephant named Rosie.The symbolism that is not overtly contrived the big circus in the sky is captivating but there is an the almost desperate struggle to parallel the narrator with the biblical story of Jacob . ",3
"Good book . I liked the movie but I loved the bookSlow read but a good read . It had much more information ",4
"This is the story of Jacob J from two points of view Jacob the old man in the assisted living facility and Jacob the young man newly orphaned trying to make his way in the world.Jacob the elder is a grumpy old curmudgeon . And as you read the book from his POV you understand why . His body has failed him his mind is n't as sharp as it was and his keepers treat him like a child . He is unbelievably frustrated . But he has a family that visits him regularly and he has something to look forward to . The circus has come to town.Seeing the circus has taken him back to his youth during the depression when he ran away from life and joined the circus . The chapters that take place during this point in time are riveting capturing the essence of what we could never experience.There 's mystery romance and some really great characters . And I think the author does a good job of capturing the essence of this proud male character . Great read . ",4
"Seeing Jacob young and old and hearing how time affected him and how he still remained connected to his history after all those years was great . It really added to the book and really tied the story together for me . It was very dramatic for me to see how this once active and interesting man was effected by the years and what age does to a person . It made me think how we cast aside many of our elderly friends and folks not paying attention to their stories . Especially key when thinking alone about Jacob 's past . I have a great love and respect for elephants and at many times i was so angered in the story and could feel the emotions that Jacob was experiencing . It was such a strong event that occurred with Rosie and without giving the story away was vindicating . Really do n't want to watch the movie now as afraid would not live up to how i imagined everything or if they changed the story too much . ",4
"Good concept in terms of time place and description of depression era circus life . Writing is passable but observations on human character are WEAK . I regret reading this and should have just gone to the movie . ",1
"This book is firmly positioned in my top 10 best reads ever . A riveting plot with full rich characters including the animals written in simple yet powerful prose . The way in which the two storylines old Jacob and young Jacob are intertwined is masterful and the conclusion of each equally satisfying . A truly wonderful book . ",4
"So much has already been written about the shallow characters and implausible ending So no need to belabor that point.However I do want to throw up a Red Flag to those readers who like me are n't big fans of profanity . I listened to Water for Elephants on CD and found myself cringing repeatedly at the author 's liberal use of the Fword . And many other words . Furthermore the graphic sexuality felt like the author 's attempt to titillate and shock her readers with needless cheap thrills . She provided ample details regarding the sexual habits of her characters whilst omitting more relevant ones regarding central relationships and motives.There was an interesting storyline in there somewhere . As to the rest it could 've been toned down . ",1
"Great and dramatic character development some you love some you care about some you hate and one or two you simply loathegreat characters living life with all of its pathos humor and drama in a Depression era circusSome points will make you laugh out loud some smile in suprise and some where you want to say That sorry no good SOB Some will make you gasp in joy and delight one or two in horror . All in all a very good book.The characters the pathos and the humor the living of life make it come alive and stay with you long after the last page is turned . I was sorry to seen it end and that is the way a good book is supposed to leave you . This one is good though it never really talks about or explains the title Water for Elephants ",4
"borrowed this book from the kindle library and only had it a day before I ended up returning it.i found the parts that I read pornographic and vulgarmakes me sad for the world and those that ARE N'T bothered by such thingsguess I should just stick to the young adult novelssigh ",1
"I never would have read a book about the circus but this was recommended by a friend and I loved it . Do n't let the subject matter distract you from a great novel ! ",4
"I ended up caring deeply about the characters and the narrative was strong . The setting of the novel in a circus was a stroke of genius . The writing was strong and fluid not masterwork material though . But hey if you want to read a masterpiece read one . ",4
"The perfect ending in any book I have read in a loing time . What looked like a sad ending turned out to be inspiring instead . I must say I adore this book . ",4
"Best book I 've read in a while . Interesting unusual great characters . Once again pointing out the incredible spread of compassion and evil that humans are capable of . The book felt very real but also had times where it was magical . Loved it . ",4
"I was excited because I suspected that this was a book must have been written for me . I have always been a circus enthusiast and I was particularly interested in the details and the workings of a circus during the depression era . The amount of research is impressive . I agree with the other reviewers that the sections concerning the old man in the nursing home were probably the best written . Unfortunately the part that I had the least patience with is the love triangle . That of course is the main engine for the plot . I did n't think the writting was as clunky as some claimed . I would have liked to have known more about the elephant . Where I 'm from the nursing home takes all those who want to go to the circus or where ever even if it is 60 miles away . And what 's this deal with people writting novels about characters and events that are as far removed from themselves as possible ? It must be a reaction against Hemmingway Fitzgerald etc . but those were some pretty good writers . I enjoyed the topic but I hoped to like this book more . ",2
"I was a little reluctant to read this as the context of a circus did n't excite me . But on the recommendation of a friend I picked it up . I was quickly drawn into the story and thoroughly enjoyed it . The ending was a bit of a stretch but having been drawn into the characters it was still satisfying . ",4
"I had a hard time putting this book down not because it was action packed or particularly fast paced but because the development sincerity and engaging voice of the main character at both stages of his life was refreshingly flawless . The voice remains true and believable throughout the entire narrative and is well developed giving me a clear picture of who Jacob Jankowski is and why I should care . Because this is achieved I am fully invested in his world and experiences . Like wise the supporting characters are dynamic and interesting but even given their deformities whether physical or psychologically they never over shadow the main character.The book provokes thoughts on treatment and intelligence of animals economy marriage class race healthcare friendship and family . As well as it forces us to take a hard look at how our culture deals with the elderly.Sometimes the monotony of bingo and singalongs and ancient dusty people parked in the hallway in wheelchairs makes me long for death . Particularly when I remember that I 'm one of the ancient dusty people filed away like some worthless tchotchke.If I had to give a 'con ' to the book it would be toward the ending when the author simplifies Jacob 's journey with a 'run away with the circus ' solution . However this does not disappoint and in a way is the logical path and most appropriate ending given the character 's circumstances and alternative . It is the happiest it can get . ",3
"Loved this book . Thought it might be depressing in the beginning but soon became gripped in the twists and turns off the plot . Quite a colorful ride . ",4
"Definately in my top ten favorites of all time ! ! ! I read it in a day and a half ! ! ",4
"Seldom has a book moved me as much as this one did . Perhaps it 's because I listened to the audiobook version and the narrators voices were perfect for the different stages of life in the book . Perhaps it 's because my 98 year old motherinlaw is in a nursing home but the author captured what life for a 90+ year old must be like in a nursing home facility . In addition I LOVE the circus even though today 's pale in comparison to those that were under canvas . Without doing a spoiler I can only say that it 's been a long time since the ending of a book brought tears to my eyes . I wish I could give it more than 5 stars . ",4
"This novel was absolutely fabulous . I liked the way the author bounced back and forth from the past to the present . I could really feel the many struggles the characters were having by the way the author got into their minds . Terrific story with interesting photos to make it so real . ",4
"What a great story ! My wife has been wanting to watch the movie so I had to hurry up and read the book . It is a very charming love story played out on the set of a traveling circus . The times are hard but true love for both people and animals finds a way to shine through . Loved loved the ending ! ",4
"This was a fun book that was easy to read and follow . The author brought the reader to the circus ! The main character suffered a tragedy that he literally was running a way from when he found himself eventually working in a circus . As the reader you then go through the journey of his life in the circus as a young man where he experiences life love and tragedy . I appreciate the ending of the book and thought it was a nice ending to his life journey . ",3
"I read the book . I could not watch the movie . The book was so good if you could stand the feelings of the circus and what it was doing to him and the love he felt for her . ",3
"Very good story . I liked the story being told from the old man 's memories and his current life . It is a story rich with characters . ",4
"I 've never been big on circuses so I was not expecting to like this book . However Jacob was a sympathetic character especially as an elderly man whose family seemed to visit him in his nursing home out of obligation . ",2
"WATER FOR ELEPHANTS is a sweeping story of nearly epic proportions that touches on the young the old and lost loves all within one man 's life.His name is Jacob Janowski a grumbling old 93yearold or is it 90yearold ? fart living in an old folks home . Enduring his final days with other old folks Jacob loathes his surroundings and how he is treated by the medical staff . Then one day a circus sets up stakes not far from Jacob 's retirement facility and memories of lifegoneby come flooding back to him.We timetravel with Jacob in his mind not the science fiction kind and learn of a short span that changed Jacob 's life . Preparing for his final exams in veterinary school Jacob soon learns of his parents ' demise in a deadly car accident . Running away from his problems Jacob joins up with the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth . Hired on initially as a rube Jacob 's talents with animals soon come to light and he 's assigned as the shows official vet . But trouble love and loss await him as he travels the rails with the show . Falling for a married woman trying to fit in with the grunts versus the performers battling the show 's musclebound brutes that carry out Uncle Al 's orders Uncle Al owns the show and trying to keep from being redlighted being thrown from the train Jacob 's short stint in the circus circuit changes everything about him.Author Sara Gruen 's easy reading style lends itself to a fast fun and interesting read . It also surprisingly has a ton of character depth and not just for human characters but for the animals Jacob tends . Particularly that of Rosie the dumb as hammers elephant that turns out to be much much more than what she seems.The ending to WATER FOR ELEPHANTS was absolutely perfect letting us know that even though the elderly can be crotchety they serve a much greater purpose than to be wheeled around in chairs and told when what and where to eat drink and think . Finding a home where one belongs is the toughest thing when people get older and it was a fantastic ending for Jacob to go home to when the final sentence gets read . ",4
"LOVED LOVED LOVED this book and the author paints such a wonderful detailed picture of each character no matter how profound to the story . I could not put this book down.If you are offended by sexual content or 'colorful ' language maybe it 's not the best read for you . But understand that the content is part of the raw nature of the circus life during that time . ",4
"Rarely do I enjoy books that are recommended to me as much as I enjoyed Sara Gruen 's 'Water For Elephants ' . A charming touching entertaining read from start to finish the book 's frequent 'travels in time ' from a depression era college boy experiencing loss and uncertainty at a young age to a 90+ year old man also experiencing loss and uncertainty while reliving his past and trying desperately to maintain as much dignity as possible in face of his diminishing capacity with old age.The story begins with the older Jacob Jankowski infuriated with a newer resident at his assisted living facility who with the advent of a circus arriving nearby delights and entertains his female dining hall companions with stories of how he carried water for elephants at the circus in his younger years . Jacob who is incensed at this obviously false claim and alienates himself from the rest of the residents begins to relive through a series of remembrances in his mind his own experiences in the Benzini Brothers circus in his youth.With a cast as colorful as the balloons and flags that you can imagine flying over the bigtop of the Benzini Brothers circus Jacob 's internal narrative weaves a tale of love loss betrayal and murder that is as fine a coming of age story as I have ever read.A thoroughly enjoyable read from start to finish . ",4
"I 've just completed reading this book a third time . One word of advice Read the book BEFORE seeing the movie . While both book and film can each stand alone reading the book first makes the movie so much more enjoyable . The story is uniquely compelling and the author does an excellent job of describing the life and times of a Depressionera circus . I just could n't put the bloody book down ! Like the author before writing this book I 'd never been to a circus before . However I did grow up with Depression survivor grandparents especially my grandmother who was infamous locally for feeding the hobos who passed through our poor little railroad town . Even when she had little to feed her three children the transients who spotted the hobo tags on their back fence never went away emptyhanded.I have been fascinated by stories of the circus since visiting the Ringling Circus Museum in Sarasota Florida at the age of eight . Now in my 50 's I long to see a real circus for myself . ",4
"Love love love this book . This book is so much more than I thought it would be . Its beautiful exciting eye opening and intriguing . I fell in love with the story and its characters from the beginning . Favorite character of all ? Rosie for sure yes the elephant . Shes innocent smart witty out smarts her humans and seemingly has a wonderful personality . She is amazing . But of course this book is not just about an elephant . Its about love hate excitement tyranny rage and some real good laughs . Definitely a book worth reading . ",4
"I loved this book . In fact I also listened to it on cd . Gives you a idea how circus life was or could beI am no expert on circus life but my husband worked on some . Can be fun and hard ",4
"While I do n't completely regret reading this book about a young man who joins the circus as a vet in the 1930 's in hindsight I defintely would have chosen another book . It starts off with a bang then slows down significantly in the middle and it ends quite nicely . It 's your typical boy meets girl boy falls in love with girl story . I did enjoy the historical fiction aspect of it and I truly enjoyed the final portion of the book where the author writes about why how and what she did to write this book.I 'd recommend it to the causal reader but a more sophisticated reader may want to look elsewhere . ",2
"I was really impressed by this book . It 's an old man 's retelling of his younger days at a circus . He 's currently in a nursing home . What 's amazing is how she takes you inside his head and causes you to see events through his eyes and his mind . You feel his frustration his loneliness and how he 's misunderstood.Older people in the home are treated like children but inside they 're cognizant at least some of the time and resent this treatment but are helpless to prevent it.The details in the circus era are very well written . You 're taught a lot about circus life the fun the dangerous the dark underbelly . Maybe it 's not representative it is fiction but you believe it . She takes you there.One of the most enjoyable fiction books I 've read . ",4
"I Bought this one on a whim as my favorite authors seemed to have dried up a little . I 'm so glad I did it 's wonderful.Jacob Jankowski is 93 hr thinks and in an old folks home put out to pasture . He has an enthralling story inside him that many of us only wish we had . Dropping out of college and running away with the circus as a young man his story unfolds as a true adventure.The circus of the 30 's is the back drop for this wonderful yarn and we follow Jacob as he navigates his way around the people the lore the language and the pecking order . All the characters are colorful and each brings a dimension to the story that has the reader turning pages as fast as possible . I think I blew through this one in two days . I might have done it in one had I not had commitments I had to keep.The story is interspersed with up to date goings on at the old folks home the aged Jankowski is a resident of but you can just tell his heart is still on the circus train of his youth . The end of the book is perfect in its simplicity and rightness.To say I thoroughly enjoyed this book would somehow understate the whole experience to say I loved it would be closer to the truth . If you want something to read that will draw you in like a moth to a flame this might just be the book . If you want to be taken back to a bygone age of Americana complete with all its misgivings and mayhem this might be the story . If you want to immerse yourself in a great story that I hope becomes a movie this IS the book . ",4
"SEVERAL PEOPLE HAVE SUGGESTED TO ME THAT I READ THIS BOOK . I HAVE OBSERVED PEOPLE READING THIS BOOK ON AIRPLANES IN CARPOOL LINES SITTING ON A BENCH AT BARK PARK SO I DECIDED IT WAS A MUST READ JUST TO FEEL LIKE I BELONGED IN A SOCIETY . THE BOOK IS INTERESTING PARTICULARLY IF YOU WERE FASCINATED WITH THE CIRCUS AS A YOUNG CHILD . I FOUND THE ANIMAL BRUTALITY A LITTLE DIFFICULT TO READ ALTHOUGH IT WAS NOT AS BRUTAL AS I HAD ANTICIPATED BUT WHAT I DID MOSTLY REMEMBER AT THE END . IT 'S A GOOD READ NOT A GREAT READ . THE ONLY FLAW I WOULD MENTION IS THE NARRATOR 'S VOICE WAS NOT PLAUSIBLE AS A NINETY YEAR OLD MAN . THE AUTHOR MIGHT HAVE DONE A LITTLE RESEARCH IN THAT AREA BUT DO N'T LET THAT STOP YOU FROM READING THE BOOK . ",2
"I generally do not usually read these types of stories I am mostly a SciFi apocalyptic fan . My husband and I read this together and actually I was quite pleased with this Novel and enjoyed it very much ! I found the Authors note at the end very interesting ! It is a great Read ! I recommend it ! ",4
"I just loved this book . The author certainly did her homework on this one . Do n't be turned off by the circus because the story is so much more than that . The characters are endearing and the story wonderful to read ",3
"I thoroughly enjoyed this story . I 'm a voracious reader however never read a story about the circus I found it delightful and satisfying . The characters were powerful and colorful . However being a middleaged reader it certainly did n't make me look forward to old age ! Nevertheless a wonderful read you wo n't be disappointed . ",4
"Wow ! There are over 1600 reviews for this book . That 's great because this is a book that should be read and will be enjoyed by many.This novel is about a young man nearly finished with his veterinary studies who because of economic circumstances leaves school to join a circus as its resident veterinarian.This book switches back and forth from the standpoint of the veterinarian in his older years to the present time . As an old man he looks back at his experiences and the crises in the life of his great love Dolly . Dolly loves horses and elephants and is in a relationship with an abusive man who is in charge of the circus.The protagonist 's relationship with his roommate a dwarf and the dwarf 's Jack Russell Terrier are wonderfully characterized.I enjoyed this book quite a bit and recommend it highly . ",3
"It was a good read . I read it on a flight and could hardly put it down . I liked the ending . ",3
"Well written story of circus life the people and circumstances that brought the traveling big top to our lives . You can almost smell the sawdust the action the intensity of the people who made this such a happening in the small cities of 20th century America . ",3
"Having aging parents I was captivated by the opening of the bookThe novel the story in which the historical facts of the train circus are interwoven appeals to any person 's compassionate emotionsI really enjoyed the book even beyond my expectations . ",4
"This is wonderful book ! Ever curious about what happens behind the scenes of a circus ? Well this story shows that it 's nothing like you 've ever imagined . Jacob Jankowski is en route to become a veternarian when all of a sudden he loses his parents and everything changes . He decides to run away and runs into a traveling circus . He eventually gets a job with them as their vet and gets an inside look on the running of the circus . But wait now Jacob is a 90 or is it 93 year old man living in a dull nursing home . The way that this novel flashes back and forth between the present old man and the past young Jacob as his story with the circus and the excentric characters he meets there adds a wonderful effect to this story . It 's a must read once you pick up the book you wo n't want to put it down until the end . You 'll never believe the crazyness behind the freakshows and the secretive and passionate characters behind the facade of happiness . ",4
"I absolutely loved this book.I am an Animal loverand have very fond memories of my Grandma taking me to the Circus.However I was blown away by the beauty in this book.Sarah Gruen is a Very talented writer.I gave the book to my mom when she was done and she was blown away also.At the End of the book I had tears running down my face.True Storytelling Genius.Thank you Sarah for a RefreshingAwesome touching read ! ",4
"Water for Elephants is an exceptional read . The characters are welldeveloped and authentic the story entertaining and enlightening the writing and research first rate . All in all a tremendous read . I ca n't imagine anyone who would not enjoy this book I highly recommend . ",4
"& # 8203This # 1 NY Times Bestseller Water for Elephants & # 8220WFL & # 8221 was released as a film with Reese Witherspoon in 2011 and it offers us a timeless revelation of something that most of us could never fathom the bygone era of traveling circus life with grippingly real characters at an astonishing depth from an author who is too young to know such vernacular much less in depth and all the wretched animal smells the poverty of that life it 's inherent tragedies sprinkled with humor intrigue and life & # 8217s intensity . All of this is given to us from the senescent eyes of one 90 or 93 and it leaps through his semidementiablurred eyes to his eyes as they were decades past the animated vibrant mind of a large strong and most admirable but real young man JacobJake Jankowski a vetenarian trained at Cornell University among America & # 8217s elite privileged classes who fell into the depths of the morass of the Americana that one would expect circuslife to reflect. & # 8203Her novel is a muchheralded classic as modern literature might define it even if its prose are not of classical stature the story that she weaves is captivating indeed . She presents this historicalfiction view of circus life primarily as dialogue very believable at that and so worth the time to read it but it wants for more descriptive passages and philosophy to feed our starved minds . Still when she is of a mind to do so she writes memorable lines thus sprinkling her fascinating plot with tasteful descriptive metaphors and similes which never impede the flow of the story line nor irritate the spellbound reader . The plot drifts dreamlike between the disquieting realities of old age and its debilitating manifestations and the alltoo vivid memories of circus life and the tragic and wonderful characters and griping events that then unfold. & # 8203Clearly she has studied seniors and their halting routines in assisted living facilities and she makes them all too real . With this I have two problems . First seniors ' lives are boring and worse awash in sadness . Second for one of my age they strike frighteningly close to home increasing the appeal of some later selfextinction a far preferable denouement than the gradual withering and atrophy that time assures . As such I rapidly flipped through the chapters dwelling on Jacob 's painful senescent existence . On balance I horoughly enjoyed learning so much about circus life in America some 100 years ago and all of the characters and plots of WFL . Brava Sara Guen . Ms. Guen is a Canadian who now resides in America with her husband and sons . Yes it IS worth your time . 4 Stars BookAWeekMan ",3
"I have seen this book on the best seller list for a long time now . I would read the reviews here on amazon pick it up in the bookstore only to put it down again thinking this just is n't my type of book . A few weeks ago I was talking with a collegue about recent books we have read . She told me she just finished Water for Elephants . Usually we like the same sort of books so I had to ask her what she thought I told her I just never bought it because it seemed so not interesting . She encouraged me to read it she said it was wonderful.Well she was right ! It was amazing . It read like a true story and I am sure the author did her research . This book really made you feel for the main character in current time and his past with the circus . It was sad at times but also funny and thoughtful . I read it in less than a week and it was one of those books that although you coud n't wait to see what happened you did n't want it to end . ",4
"Water for Elephants is an entertaining read that chronicles the life of Jacob a circus ' veterinarian well would have been if he would have taken his final exams . The story is told in alternating time periods Jacob recounting his youth from the confines of an assisted living facility . After the horrific death of his parents during the Great Depression Jacob drops out of school and begins working with the Benzini Brothers circus . He quickly discovers the dark secrets so wellhidden behind the cheerful humorous faade of circus shows . While on the road Jacob grows up and learns a great deal about life out in the real world while traveling with the circus including lessons on friendship trust love and selfreliance.This novel is extremely plot driven and is not a literary challenge by any means . I appreciate the take on circus life this is n't something that is commonly written about . It was still very enjoyable and interesting and I would recommend it for all readers . ",3
"Loved every bit of this book . The narration is wellplannedwe follow Jacob Jankowsi a wouldbe vet with his father until his parents are killed in a car crash . Jacob hits the road and one night jumps on a train . Little does he know that that one jump will change his life foreverfor the better and the worst.Gruen delights readers with circus life during the depression with strong character development and a strong plot . You root for the animals who are heinously mistreated by the ringmaster and you root for the workers . ",4
"One of the best books I 've ever read . The writing was so beautiful and lyrical . Great surprise ending . I 'm a voracious reader but it 's been a long time since I picked up a book and did n't set it back down until I turned the last page . Loved the old guy . ",4
"I was pleasantly surprised by this story . Granted it had wonderful reviews here on Amazon but there have been other popular fiction novels with the same reviews and I loathed those books.I do n't need to go into any details as the book has been so thoroughly reviewed but I will say there was so much in the book that touched me . Ninety or ninetythree year old Jacob 's story was so emotionalit 's going to stay with me for quite awhile . Bravo ! ",3
"Water for Elephants is the first adult novel I 've read and it certainly did n't disappoint.The story starts off with ninetythree year old Jacob Jankowski recounting his life as a young man training at Cornell to be a veterinarian . He drops everything when his parents die and joins the circus.Jacob was a very easily liked character . I 'd have to say the flash forwards were something I really enjoyed . Gruen 's seamless writing between past and present is breathtaking . Reading the difference between an older Jacob as opposed to a young one was really intriguing . It was interesting to hear him describe how his body has aged from the vital handsome young man he once was and how he sees himself as this decrepit old man now . It was so sad but quite hysterical at the same time.I did n't feel like I connected with Marlena too much . Yes I liked her as a character but I had a hard time seeing what Jacob thought was so special about her . A character I had a hard time deciding whether or not I liked from the moment he was introduced was August . In the beginning you want to like him when he 's befriending Jacob but when he starts slipping up and showing that he is really a very cruel man you immediately switch to despising him.Now Rosie what can I say about Rosie ? She is the cutest elephant ever ! I love how Gruen wrote her with such a loveable personality . Well really how she wrote most of the animals with such great characteristics . Bobo the monkey was also super adorable . Needless to say something that I had a hard time with while reading this was the animal cruelty . A while back I read an article from PETA on how elephants most circus animals really are treated and it was just awful . So it was really hard reading it in gruesome detail . But hopefully it 'll make people realize how circus animals are treated so they can make a stand against it.Overall Gruen has created a beautifully written novel . Her vivid descriptions and accurate portrayal of life in the circus during the Depression were captivating . Not once did I feel that the story dragged on and the ending left me satisfied . I also felt that the pictures of the circus at the beginning of the chapters were a nice touch.I ca n't wait to see if I love the movie as much as I loved the book . Rob better not disappoint ! ",3
"Water for Elephants has recently taken over the spot of my favorite book . The book flawlessly alternates between the main character 's present day experience in a nursing home and his memories of his life during his early 20 's . I was skeptical about the switching at first since many books that do this are usually confusing and I have to keep turning back a few pages to see what time period I 'm in but the author does this perfectly.I completely fell in love with the main character both the 92 year old and 23 year old versions of him . As someone who works in a nursing home his experiences were so realistic and the author captured this perfectly.The book was extremely well written and it was obvious that Gruen did her research . I found myself looking for more information about travelling circuses and downloading pictures from them especially elephants after reading this . ",4
"I usually read romance or paranormal books but I got a gift cert . for $ 10 for itunes and this book was like $ 5 for an audiobook so I got it and I must admit that I really was n't expecting to like this book but after I started it I stayed up all night and lessened to the whole 12 hours of it . I must admit that had I been reading the book I would have got bored with it because it does describe every nook and cranny in great detail but since it was an audiobook IT WAS AWESOME ! there are two men reading the book a young guy and an older entailment which brought the story to life so I felt like I was there living the life of a circus vet . and an old man in a nursing home feeling left out and worthless who gained the power to . uh well I best let you read the book for yourself instead of giving it away . It is one of the best reads I have ever heard ! D I would worn that there is some language and some content that you might not want your young kids to hear or read and if you get offended at cussing and impure thoughts you might want to skip this one but I think most would over look those minor scenes . ",4
"I was fortunate enough to first listen to this story as an audio book . If you get the chance I 'd recommend you hear the audio book as hearing the main character in the voice of a young man and as an elderly male added to the pleasure of discovering this circus love story . Because I was so impressed by the audio book i purchased the eBook so I could enjoy it all again on my Kindle . This one is a classic in my opinion . ",4
"I have never read a book remotley like this . It has everything that I do not read . But I got curious cause everyone kept talking about it . Glad I did . It pulled me in from the first click . I grew to love everything about this book . Felt anger at the injustice . Cried at the joy . If you are curious if something so diffrent can draw you in . Do n't be . This one is a keeper that I will read SEVERAL times . And always find something new . ",4
"I knew from the very first chapter that I was going to be swept away by this one . In fact it was hard to put it down especially the last hundred pages or so . I stayed up well past my bedtime last night to finish I just could n't go to sleep until I knew how everything was going to work out . The characters really touched me . I was rooting for them throughout Definitely recommend picking this one up ! A total treat ! ",3
"I read this books years ago when it came out and thought it was good but not great . I reread it as a book club selection and liked it much better due to the depth of characters . The author has done her research in the life of the circus performers . I hated the cruelty shown to some of the animals but I know some of those things took place . True love wins with the risks people are willing to take to be with their soul mate . The end is pretty unbelievable with an old man running away to join the circus again . However it made me hopeful that this ignored man would find happiness in his last years . ",3
"Water for elephants is a good read . It captures the reader 's imagination and I found myself really caring about the characters . The author has smoothly incorporated detailed information about the workings of the circus society creating a bird 's eye view of a unique community . ",3
"The Benzini Brothers were a third rate circus during the bottom of the Great Depression . As 90 year old Jacob now remembers it the circus transformed the life of Marlena and himself through the power of love and trust in this heartrending story of freaks clowns pain and passion . Sure to be a selection for bookclubs everywhere ",4
"I wish that I could say that I was one of the readers of Water For Elephants the well researched novel by Sara Gruen who was graciously transported to the circus world of the 1930 's but sadly I can't.I am not one who acclaims the romance of the beautiful Marlena the circus horse rider and Jacob whose personal tragedy causes him to walk away from his final exams at Cornell Vet school . Instead I am left thinking that perhaps I should have read Twilight instead . The an essential problem of reading a romance in which the reader does not care for the romantic protagonists is that it takes the heart out of the book.Though there was enough in the side characters animals and atmosphere to carry the book but alas there I often found Gruen 's phrasing annoying and clunky . I have decided in all fairness to Ms Gruen and her many fans that I will desist from reading any more of her works and we shall all continue on quite happily . ",2
"I 'm pretty sure that no matter what I say I about this book my words wo n't be able to do it justice . It 's an incredible book brilliant educational to an extent and highly entertaining . By page ten I was hopelessly lost in its story and fought sleep to stay awake and finish it.The story is told from the view point of a man named Jacob . His viewpoint alternates between present time where he is an elderly man in his 90 's in an assisted living facility which he despises and also from the past perspective as he recalls his days as part of a train circus in the 1930 's . When young Jacob 's life turns upside down he jumps a train not realizing which particular train he jumpedand his world is changed forever.The story has a bit of everything history romance animals mental illness corruptionits all in there and its all in there in a way which leaves you incapable of putting the book down . I learned a lot of things I did n't know before reading this book . The intelligence of elephants is far higher than I ever gave them credit for . I learned about the epidemic of Jake Leg which afflicted thousands of lower class folks in the 1930 's . Not to mention how much I learned about the inner working of the train circus industry.At the end of the story is a note from the author which for that alone the book is worth reading . Sara Gruen is very insightful and passionate and I have a great deal of respect for her as a person and an author now.My words are n't doing this story any justice . There 's so much to it . It 's a complex work of historical fiction and its one I hope you all read . ",4
"Jacob Jankowski is pushing 90 and wallowing in a nursing home abandoned by his family and surrounded by aged octogenarians who irk him with their senility . He has few pleasures in life an astute and friendly nurse named Rosemary and his vibrant memories . As Jacob lies in his bed drifting in and out of sleep lucidness and dreams the compelling story of his experiences as a young man unfolds in Sara Gruen 's mesmerizing new novel WATER FOR ELEPHANTS.The year is 1932 . Jacob is 23 and just shy of getting his degree in veterinary medicine from Cornell when he learns that his parents have been killed in a horrific accident . Emotionally and monetarily stranded unmoored and with nothing to lose Jacob jumps a train and finds himself traveling with the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth . Starting at the bottom rung of the strict caste system within the ranks of the Circus employees Jacob 's veterinary knowledge quickly garners him a place near the top of the hierarchy among the company of the hotheaded ringmaster August and his beautiful wife Marlena the allpurpose female star of the show.He also finds himself among the company of cantankerous midgets gloriously endowed men 's entertainers and a menagerie of exotic and soulful creatures . In her previous novels Gruen has proven herself a master at depicting the uncanny and often astounding bond between humans and animals and the scenes with Jacob and the creatures under his care are nuanced and lovely . Gruen paints each creature 's persona with as much care and detail as she does for the humans subtly illuminating the similarities and undermining the concept of human superiority . In the Depressionera setting of Jacob 's tale the survival of the humans is inextricably intertwined with that of the animals they all live in a kind of chaotically symbiotic state where a star horse 's sickness could spell bankruptcy and the chance for redemption lies in the acquisition of an elephant named Rosie.Exceptionally drawn as well is the development of a tentative bond between Jacob and Marlena . Jacob immediately is attracted to the lovely Marlena . She takes longer to reciprocate his affection and throughout their cautious and hesitant budding romance the presence of Marlena 's husband looms large and threatening . Gruen 's pacing is excellent and the tension among Marlena Jacob and August simmers and crackles before coming to a brutal and electrifying climax.The transitions back and forth in time and the mundane events that unfold as Jacob moans and gripes through his days at the nursing home could have been in the hands of a less skilled writer jarring and distracting breaking the flow and drawing the reader out of the story . But while the crazed dramatic and often spectacularly bizarre world of the Benzini Brothers is fascinating as the novel progresses the reader becomes equally drawn into Jacob 's present world . His disdain for his aged body and regret over the confusing array of relatives who visit him intermittently and whose names are permanently muddied in his mind is deeply poignant.Gruen spent years researching Depressionera circuses and the breadth of her knowledge is revealed in all the tiny details that pepper Jacob 's memories but she also has a finelytuned radar for the magic and mysteries of the human heart . The meat and madness of this novel may appear to lie in Jacob 's memories of his younger self but in her subtle exploration of Jacob as an old man Gruen finds an equally compelling story.Readers may find themselves churning through this book at a rapidfire pace eager to see what lies ahead then slowing down as they realize the pages are dwindling . WATER FOR ELEPHANTS is a book that can be read and reread recommended and handed off between friends it begs to be discussed and mulled over . With lines of startling beauty haunting and evocative scenes and finelydrawn characters who dance off the page readers can dip in and out of the novel immersing themselves in Jacob 's memories . The story and its characters will haunt readers long after they have resurfaced . Reviewed by Jennifer Krieger ",4
"From the very start this book had me completely drawn I felt immediate compassion for the main character the author really made me think about what it means to become old and useless in our society . I could n't put this book down the story unfolded at just the right pace and the characters were very real and alive to me . After buying a few duds recently including Last Night in Twisted River how dull and poorly written for such a supposedly acclaimed author that one was I was so refreshed to read a book that made me lose myself in the story.There are scenes that are very hard to read as an animal lover but the characters you are meant to identify with are good people trying to do the right thing . I do n't like circuses at all because of all the animal abuse so I almost did n't buy this book but glad I did ! ",4
"Gosh how I cried while reading this book ! It 's such a beautiful and unforgettable story in so many ways I do n't even know where to begin explaining what an absolutely gorgeous mustread this is.The story is told with two voices . It starts with Jacob a full ninety or ninety and three years old he ca n't quite remember coming to terms with aging and being left on his own by his children in a facility for the aged whilst looking back at his time as a dropout veterinary student when he joined the circus after his parents death . The second voice is of Jacob during the three months he had joined the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth in the summer of 1931 and follows the story of him and Rosie the elephant and him falling irrevocably in love with another man 's wife a love triangle with a difference for sure . Both these story lines Jacob as an old man and twenty three year old Jacob deals with different sides and facets of Jacob.Sarah Gruen is a master character developer . Main and secondary role players were vividly painted as multidimensional characters . She wrote them in such a striking way that before you can stop yourself you 've lost your heart to quite a few of them including the animals . Rosie of course is the star in this book and if nothing else her trials and tribulations as well as her spectacular sense of humor had me laughing and wiping tears at the same time.If you 've seen the movie but have n't read the book yet I can guarantee you wo n't be disappointed . As great as the movie was the book touched me on so many more levels than I could 've imagined . I was riveted by the author 's writing and the skilful manner in which she pulled me into Jacob 's reality . I experienced so many emotions along with the various characters and at times felt I could strangle August for what he put Rosie Marlena and Jacob through.Most memorable line which made me smile Not only am I unemployed and homeless but I also have a pregnant woman bereaved dog elephant and eleven horses to take care of.The wellexecuted fastpaced plot fraught with twists and turns also had moments of humor woven into it and I finished this book feeling breathless from the anticipation excitement and sheer excellence of this imaginative story and its realisticallysketched characters . It was clear to me that the author did indepth research for this novel . If you do n't purchase the book at least watch the movie . But Water for Elephant definitely makes my list of top ten most memorable books that must be read in one 's lifetime . Sara Gruen now has another proud new fan ! ",4
"I wanted to read the book before I saw the movie and was greatly surprised that I enjoyed it so much . It is a story filled with such sad moments but also the promise of a happy future . It is told in a wonderful way . I enjoyed the whole ride from beginning to end . There was some moments when I just wanted him to leave the damn circus already but do what exactly ? or go work where ? you realize how bad the economy was and at least here he was eating every day which might not have been the case anywhere else . ",4
"I decided to read this because of all the talk and was woried it would flop I never should of worried . This is a wonderful novel full of plot and charactors that are a joy to meet . Definitly worth a read might even read it again . ",4
"Loved this as much as I liked the Notebookmaybe more ! Kept my attention the whole time . Has some humor and an interesting circus story as well . The romancewell you 'll just have to read that for yourself ! ",4
"Sara Gruen 's writing is hypnotic . The story is truly one of the best . It 's perfect tender and rich . The author admirably convey the leading character 's life in a full circle . The story will remain with you . I look forward on reading this novel again and again . I would very highly recommend it . ",4
"The book offered a glimpse into a past lifestyle and I found it interesting . Perhaps a little silly and could have included more history but all in all I enjoyed it . ",3
"I have n't been this engrossed in a book in quite some time . I could n't stop reading it ! The story was unique and interesting and the characters were wonderful . I loved the old man that narrated the story . The book spoke with great honesty about getting old . Read it you wo n't be disappointed ! ",4
"In a story spanning seventy years Water for Elephants starts in depressionera America as a young veterinary student named Jacob Jankowski who runs from tragic circumstances joins a circus and then reflects on his memories at the end of his life while in a home for the aged . This book is rich in themes . It is a story about coming of age circus life elephants love friendships cruelty mental illness dignity life in an old folks home and old age itself . Author Sara Gruen has created a world of vivid characters and scenes centering on a traveling circus . Life in this environment can be harsh and cruel but it also has a glamorous side and a closeknit community in which decency sometimes prevails . The reader will feel the chill of despair and revulsion but also the emotions that warm one 's heart . So much goes on in Water for Elephants that I will not begin to describe the plot or all the characters . Everything is unforgettable and I find myself wondering what happened where the story left off because there is a lot more to tell . I doubt Gruen will write a sequel but I will eagerly await one if she does . ",4
"I found the book so interessting right from the beginning to the end . It starts outwith a death and it keeps you wondering how it all is going to end . To have an insidechance to see how circus people lived and how they cared for the animals gives you thatchance to 'run away with the circus ' ",4
"Water for Elephants is the story of Jacob Jankowski . After a tragic accident involving his parents Jacob feels lost and unsure of his future . One night he hops a train only to find that he 's hopped a circus train . Because he is almost a vetrenarian they welcome him aboard although not that nicely or easily and he quickly becomes embroiled in a very predictable love triangle.Gruen does a great job with the transition from the ruminations of 93 yearold Jacob in the nursing home to 22 yearold Jacob on the traveling circus . They 're seemless and very well done . Reading about the circus and life on a traveling circus during the depression era was also interesting.My complaint with the novel lies in the fact that as a reader I felt the author just skimmed the surface with this novel . The story was predictable and shallow and while the characters were decently developed the overall story line just was n't that great IMHO.I was disappointed . ",2
"This is such a nice book . I truely recommend it . You ca n't put it down after you start reading . ",3
"I actually bought this book years ago but just got around to reading it when I saw that the movie was out . I had high expectations because of the press from the movie and from the many positive reviews . Unfortunately few of my expectations were met.What I Like About This BookIt 's the Circus . I love the sideshow era and just to read a book that was set in a Circus was entertaining.Easy read . Ending was fun even if it was a little too neat.What I Did Not Like About This BookPoor character development especially the villains . It was obvious everyone hated August and Uncle Al but not obvious why . Even when we finally see August at his worst its too little too late . In fact August loses his mind because he thinks his wife is sleeping with Jake something that is not quite true yet but definitely headed that direction . His actions are unjustified but his anger seems entirely justified his wife is already having an emotional affair with another man and has already kissed him . The villains were never developed and because of that the story was not nearly as engaging or suspenseful as it could have been . The hero also makes some odd decisions that do n't match up with his character like letting August beat the animals.True Love ? Nope . Love story seemed contrived . Falls in love at first sight.Rosie the elephant was poorly developed as a character . Almost a background piece in the story.I really ca n't pinpoint exactly what it was about this book that did n't work but it definitely did n't . The characters were poorly developed the love interest and suspense contrived and it was hard to care a lot about the elephant because we never really got to know her . It 's a shame because I love the idea but it just did not cut it.If you want to read some great nonfiction about sideshows and entertaining attractions check out Ricky Jay 's books . His stuff is all wonderful.Learned Pigs & Fireproof WomenJay 's Journal of AnomaliesExtraordinary Exhibitions Broadsides from the Collection of Ricky JayCelebrations of Curious Characters ",1
"It took me a good 4 days to get halfway through this book before it finally caught my attention . It was okay I wasnt drawn in immediately . If it wasnt for the old man perspective I would have completely disliked this book . ",2
"One of the best books I have ever read . I absolutely loved it the ending was so perfect I cried ! ",4
"I enjoyed this book very much . Full of detail and things I would have never suspected or imagined about a circus . I must admit that I had some trouble with the scenes of animal and even people abuse but was able to skim quickly over it enough to get the picture but not dwell on it . I know that this part of the book had to be told because I 'm sure that it happened . I did enjoy the animals and people revenge at the end greatly ! I especially loved the weaving of Jacob 's story from old man to young and back again . And of course the happy endingwell who could have asked for a better one . Yep ! I loved this book . ",3
"This book had its moments I cried and I smiled . However there was a lot in between those moments that I ended up just glossing over . I find that the book is normally better than the movie so I 'm glad I read the book instead of watching the movie . I do n't think I could have sat for the whole movie . ",2
"I did n't see the movie and after reading the book I wonder how it became a movie.I though it was a ver slow read just did n't capture my interest enough.Not much if a storyline . ",1
"My title for my book review is lifted from the editorial reviews Valerie Ryan really nailed it for me.There are so many things to like about this book . The very best thing is the firm grounding in historical fact . This is what it was like in America during the Great Depression this is why the travelling circus roustabouts worked and lived the way they did because of the Depression . They did n't always get paid but at least they ate . Sara Gruen handles her historical data with an exceedingly light touch she is a marvellous storyteller . Memorable book very engaging . I can understand why there are nearly four thousand reader reviews . ",4
"Uplifting happy story . Will leave you feeling satisfied and wanting to enjoy the life you have as much as possible . This has a female author but do n't worry guys it 's not a chick book . I have loaned this book to all of my good friends and they have all enjoyed it immensely as well . Read this book . You will not be disappointed . ",4
"This is an excellent well researched book . The author obviously has a lot of empathy with the animals . Descriptions of life on the circus train seemed genuine . The ending that involved the elephant was a real surprise . One criticisim I have is that all of Sara Gruen 's books have happy endings . I guess I 'm just a Jude The Obscure kind of guy . ",3
"I am ninety . Or ninetythree . One or the other . So begins Sara Gruen 's near love letter to the circus and it 's inhabitants . Told in flashbacks by the eldery Jacob Jankowski it 's how he came to work as the vet for the Benzini Brothers a second rate Barnum and Bailey traveling across the country . A cast of ragtag characters bring the bigtop to life including a little person named Walter the sadistic ring master August and his beautiful performer wife Marlena who Jacob desperately longs for.This would make a fanatastic movie if it is n't already in progress . It has all the elements from melancholy sentiment to sweeping romance and the allure of the magical world of the three rings . ",3
"This book was just what I expected . Just as I thought it would be amazing ! ! This author never disappoints ! ! I 'm actually glad I read the book first before I seen the movie . The book is so descriptive rich and told the story perfectly . I am also extremely happy that I found this little gem of a book to read1929 Book OneI just could n't put it down took me far far an away . absolutely loved it . ",3
"A captivating story about a lesser known part of American history . So unique . I could n't put it down . A real page turner ",4
"Have to say I 'm wondering what all the fuss is about this book ? Up to about page 190 I found it to be an enjoyable read and had mentioned it to friends . Alas from page 190 onwards I found it losing its gripmaybe it 's too long ? Most of the characters are underdeveloped to the point that much of the conversation between Jacob and the various circus folks could essentially take place between him and one other they all sound the same . I 've read peoples comments about the trials and tribulations of the characters living through the depression it does n't come anywhere close to a classic dealing with the same period The Grapes of Wrath.The stampede at the end is a tad too contrived surely the animals would be tearing themselves and all around them limb from limb given that they 've attacked their handlers in the past . Same goes with Jacobs disappearance from the old peoples home again too contrived.There is the makings of a great story here but I do n't think Gruen is the one to tell it . The opening scenes have Blackie under the authority of Camel and then 3 months down the road Blackie is ejecting Camel from the train ? Sorry it does n't seem credible . August seems like a nasty piece of work but his paranoia was certainly well founded in the end we 're told that he suffers from paranoid schizophrenia but does anyone help him out with it ? Just seems a convenient way for Gruen to add a villain in to the mixand I have to question would circus folks even know what it was in the first place and surely his wife would have helped him try and figure it outI left my husbandwhy ? he was a paranoid schizophrenicah OK coolis n't life a little more complicated than that ? And his ultimate demise and how it was conducted is a little far fetched.I guess I 'm feeling let down the book starts off well but alas does n't maintain the quality . Also found the interview with Gruen to impart nothing of much substance and the Questions for Book Groups to be of a nature beyond the level of this book Grapes of Wrath certainly gives rise to concerns about the depression compassion etc . but this book does n't . Alas it did n't deliver and I do n't think I 'll be reading anything else by Gruen based on this.Have to say that I 'm a little disgruntled at the thought of Gruen has a couple of dollars of mine and undeservedly so if I was Gruen I 'd be asking myself whether the ending was worthy of the potential shown earlier in the book . Unfortunately it 's books like this that have me buying books secondhand and for the most part reading the classics they 're classics as they 've withstood the test of time I ca n't imagine this book doing so . For authors I like I 'm more than happy to buy a book new and in the process pay money to the author but my disappointment with this book is such that I do n't think Gruen deserves any reward for it and makes me realise what a financial risk one is making buying new books from untried authors.Why are there so few contemporary authors out there who are deserving of the praise that seems to be lauded upon them so easily these days ? For those of you looking for a book that covers the darker aspects of humanity and their situations along with some wonderfully humourous moments then give Suttree a read by Cormac McCarthy it 's not the easiest of reads but rewards effort . ",2
"In the great depression a young man drops out of Veterinary school and joins a travelling circus . The story unfolds in flashbacks from his present day existence in a nursing home . The author takes us into a world of cruelty privation and danger which is nevertheless full of adventure and the possibility of love . The story grabs you quickly . I could n't put this one down . I told my friends about it and the ones who actually started it were hooked too ! The writer creates believable characters and I found myself caring about them . Perhaps some were larger than life but it helped the story . Was the circus really this grim and dangerous in the 1930 's ? I do not know but Sara Gruen makes it entirely believable.This book occupied all of my spare time for several days and that is just what I hope for when I pick up a new one . The ending was a little bit contrived but I have forgiven authors for much worse . Get your hands on this one you wo n't be sorry . ",3
"It 's one of those rare books that is impossible to put down but after it 's over you feel like you learned a lot.I 'm going to give away as little as possible about the storyline because I do n't want to ruin anything so I 'll just give you a little background information . It is about the traveling circus back in the Great Depression Era and offers you a glimpse of a fantasy life that you 'd never imagine on your own . She did tons and tons of research on circuses back then so everything is extremely realistic and she covers topics that have always interested me like prohibition speakeasies and the intelligence of animals . To make the book even more relevant to readers today she weaves the past in with the present to create a masterful story that you 'll remember for years to come.A lot of times after I finish reading a book I 'll forget how it ended in just a few months not in this case though the ending gave me goosebumps and I 'll always remember it vividly . ",4
"I have n't read novels in many many years and I decided to pick this up at Target . I had no idea it was going to be a movie . I have to say it was incredibly engrossing and so much fun to be a part of this other world of train circuses ! This is a short review others have said it better . I 'll just say do n't hesitate . Just get it ! ",4
"Excellent reading ",4
"I had planned on watching the movie first because it looked good and I ca n't usually watch a movie and enjoy it if I read and enjoyed the book first and vis versa . However the book got better reviews than the movie and I did n't want to taint my experience with the story so I picked up the book first and I 'm glad I did.We are deliver the story through Mr. Jacob Jankowsky 's ninety or ninetythree year old memory . He ca n't remember his age but he remembers his life with the train traveling circus in the 1930 's like it was yesterday . We see the excitement of a life as a circus worker and more often then not the dangers that the job presents especially if you start to fall for the crazy jealous circus trainer 's wife . ",4
"I was really disappointed by this book . The only parts that were not too bad were the chapters where Jacob was an old man . But the circus stuff was very pedestrian . No spark to the writing . Do n't waste your time . ",1
"It took me a long time to get into this book . It is a little pornographic in parts . But it ended up being good . I loved the ending . I ca n't wait until the movie comes out ! ",3
"Great book ! I thoroughly enjoyed and recommend to others . Different setting which makes it interesting . Check this book out . You wo n't regret it . ",4
"I fell in love with this book several years ago . After hearing it was going to be a movie I was VERRRRRRY excited.I reread the book a few days before the movie came out just to familiarize myself with the characters and events and again for the second time fell in love with Jacob & Rosie . I love the setting Jacob 's flashbacks and the language barrier with Rosie . Definitely worth the few dollars it costs . ",4
"Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen tells the story of Jacob Jankowski and almostveterinarian whose life has just fallen apart . As he comes to this realization Jacob stumbles upon the Benzini Brother 's Most Spectacular Show on Earth circus train and hops aboard . He quickly secures his place on the show as the menagerie vet a position that will change his life forever.Sara Gruen weaves an incredibly realistic tale that allows the reader a rare glimpse into the prohibition era circus lifestyle . The amount of tension throughout the book is always palatable . I often found myself clenching my jaw and holding my breath by the end of a chapter . August is a particularly welldeveloped character frightening in the most realistic and entirely plausible way . There is a sense of impending destruction and collapse that builds with each paragraph.This tension is gracefully relieved every few chapters by visiting Jacob age ninety or ninetythree in his current state as a resident at an assisted living facility . Through the telling of Jacob 's present story the reader reaches another level of understanding and can comprehend the meaning of Jacob 's earlier experiences in entirely new ways . The tale would be much less satisfying without this continuation of the story however small it may seem.An issue that must be addressed when talking about Water for Elephants is the treatment of animals . Some scenes in the book are very difficult to read but it 's worth reading through . You will fall in love with so many of the animals as though they 're human and you will be satisfied with their redemption.For me Water for Elephants receives 55 stars . I consider it a must read that will forever change the way you think . It 's the type of story that wo n't soon leave your mind . ",4
"Enjoyable easy reading I look forward now to seeing the movie I loved the unexpected ending ! Well written story . Good . ",4
"I have owned this book for a few months . I keep getting side tracked by other books so I did not read it . Last week so many people told me how wonderful the book was and even the movie . SO I picked it up last night and am almost done with it . WOW ! ! ! What a wonderful story . You can tell a lot of research went into this by the accuracy . While I know very little about circus life I do work with the elderly and that is all accurate . A lot on the lines of The Notebook the way the story in told . ",4
"An enchanting story and not just because of the Big Top Magic that the circus brings . A wonderful read . ",4
"Sara Gruen did a fantastic job of recreating the circus life in the 1930 's as well as presenting us with the daily struggles of living of a contemporary man in his 90 's who lives in a nursing home . This man is the main protagonist of the novel who recounts his story from his last days in vet school whose life trajectory takes him to the circus after a tragic incident . The novel is rich with visual imagery of circus life the animals the workers the performers the props the train travel etc and as rich with the depressing conditions of a nanogenarian living in a nursing home the daily struggles to handle basic life skills relationships with the staff and other residents and saddest of all the knowledge of the sense of loss of one 's memory and with that the eventual loss of connection to relatives . The narrative moves quickly and aggressively taking the reader back and forth between the circus and the nursing home with each venue progressing dramatically towards its conclusion . The main charcater Jacob is sympathetic and you root for him all the way accompanying him along his travails of adjustment to circus life and his love interest . You get wrapped up in the drama and stay along eagerly on the ride.Here are my minor objectionsThe first is directed at author and editor . In a span of two pages the author uses the exact same phrase regarding some anticipated emotion from different characters . It 's jarring to read and you go back to see if you misread it but no . Not a big deal but it interrupted the flow . Bad enough but the same phrase or almost the exact same phrase appears again near the end of the book about the same emotion and once again I 'm jarred and lose the focus of the story . It seems like an amateurish mistake by author or editor.The other problem I had was that at times some of the circus characters were borderline stereoptypicalcartoonish as if the protagonist is one of a few only real people . Finally the concluding chapter had some elements to it of a Hollywood happy ending with an implausible change of attention from tragedy to negotiation . ",3
"I saw the movie before reading the book.. I taken enjoyed finding the similarities and the differences between the two . I honestly ca n't say which I enjoyed better but if you like one you will definitely be at least pleased with the other ! ",4
"I resisted this book for a long time but I 'm so glad I finally picked it up . I 'm very sad it 's over . I ca n't wait to read more from Sara Gruen . ",4
"Page after page this novel is filled with interesting facts experiences and history . That it 's a memoir of a patientresident of a nursing home is a literary vehicle of genius . How remarkable to live the life of a this young man one we can easily identify with through this period of American history 30 's 40 's only to end up with him in a currentday nursing home the finest of which are lonely places indeed.My wife and I just recently visited an uncle who lived in a very fine nursing home in another state and were pronounced saints by the staff who said no one ever visits these people . That 's why I 'm haunted by the ending of this book.I 've also paid more attention to stories of the intelligence of elephants their almost human sense of justice . Perhaps I mean their morethanhuman sense of justice.A wonderful book . You will be glad you read it . ",4
"The archetypical American novel features a solitary protagonist undertaking an odyssey in which heshe confronts both physical and moral challenges and through which heshe emerges with a renewed spirit transformed by the crucible of confrontations with adversaries both real and imagined . Sara Gruen 's engaging Water for Elephants is an eminently American work set in the depths of the Depression and featuring a brokenhearted young man whose unplanned existential leap of faith catapults him into a chaotic and unknown way of life . Jacob Jankowski discovers his untapped reservoir of courage conviction and compassion and in so doing he in every manner of the American definition of the word emerges as a hero . Water for Elephants is a triumph of a writer fully in control of her craft of a character resolute in his determination to discover life and of a depiction of ideas that truly embody our national character.The innocent Jacob on the threshold of graduating from Cornell veterinary school and returning to the Midwest to practice medicine with his father is shattered by the sudden accidental deaths of his parents . Unmoored from his past and unable to focus on his final examination he abandons his former life the moment he jumps on board a passing train . To his astonishment he has leaped into the midst of a traveling circus and thanks to the flinty care of several roustabouts manages to gain employment with the tawdry Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth a circus dominated by a sadistic ringmaster and populated by a cast of characters admirable and evil in equal proportions . In a manner of weeks Jacob immerses himself as the circus vet forms abiding friendships falls is love and faces moral dilemmas that tie his conscience into Gordian knots.Some critics have likened Jacob to his biblical counterpart and praised the novel for its allusions to the Bible . In my opinion Jacob mirrors a less sanctified model Huckleberry Finn . Like Huck Jacob flees familiar surroundings flaunts social norms befriends outcasts and risks his personal safety in order to adhere to a hardearned sense of conscience and social responsibility . Both Huck and Jacob confront mendacious adversaries rejoice in life on the lam and reinvent themselves . Like Twain Sarah Gruen writes with inordinate respect about the dispossessed and with painful awareness about the inexplicable capacity for the human heart to do well in the midst of spiritual darkness . As Twain has written and as Gruen affirms the source of humor is pain.Even the title bespeaks our capacity for misrepresentation . The elderly Jacob shunted away by his family in a assistedliving nursing home excoriates a new resident who has claimed to have carried water in buckets for elephants when he was a youngster . Aware of an elephant 's enormous drinking capacity Jacob knows a lie when he hears one . And well he should . The entire purpose of the traveling circus is deception an enterprise where rubes are separated from their money by gaping at mangy animals staring at sideshow freaks many of whom are frauds or being serviced by exotic dancers . Falsehoods illusions and duplicity are the moral big tent under which circus performers enchant Depression men and women hungry for escape . The central conflict of the novel rotates around Jacob 's involvement with a married woman and the peculiarly disturbing aspects of her husband 's mental state . This conflict is rife with secrecy duplicity and tormented twisting of ideas of right and wrong.It is no surprise that this novel is a bestseller . Written with extraordinary narrative drive populated by characters who truly represent our national character and animated by a young man whose journey for selfdiscovery is our own Water for Elephants intimately involves us in Jacob Jankowski 's search for meaning . ",4
"Water for Elephants offers some thing for everyone . If you 're a pragmatist you will love the research and facts concerning the circus of the depression era . If a romantic the ending will be for you . If you are young the choices and frustrations suffered by Jacob will be yours . For me a senior citizen the gerentology added greatly to the story.I thought it a great read especially since there are 70 years between the youth and aged of the story which is told in flashback form . There is little in common between the two periods of time except for love and the anticipation of all ages.Try it you will like it . ",4
"Amazing book which brings us into the life of a student at Cornell whose life changes dramatically and rapidly within a few days and as with all persons those dramatic changes influence the rest of his life . The story is of a circus worker during the depressionand it brought back some vague memories of my early childhood watching a small circus roll into town watching the elephants parade through from the train depot and to a farmer 's field where the Big Top would suddenly sprout with flags aflying . The story is told from the view of the worker who 's now in his 90'sand is fascinating as to how the author mixes past and present to give a picture of an amazing whole . ",4
"This is the type of book where you 're reading and forget about the rest of the world . I felt like Alice in Wonderland lost in another world 1930s with colorful characters a circus . Yes this book is about a circus and yes YOU WILL LOVE IT ! Definitely a rereadable book ! ",4
"I really dislike everyone in this book . I 'll pass on criticizing the weak writing & the obvious lack of credible research various other one star reviews have covered that and instead attack the characters Jacob is a stupid dche Marlena is a stupid twt and August is just an ahole.Jacob is supposed to be a vetanimal caretaker but what does he do ? He lets August repeatedly beat the bejeesus out of Rosie the elephant . But as soon as Marlena August 's twtty wife appears with a black eye Jacob goes bonkers and attacks August . Okay Really ? ! I 'm not brushing off wifebeating here but really ? ! One flipping black eye and August deserves to die ? I would have killed that bastard for beating AND torturing Rosie LONG BEFOREHAND ! ! And then Jacob keeps harping about it He hit her ! He hit her ! He hit her ! Well so what ? It 's not like she was tied to a stake like Rosie was . And the only reason she had the black eye was because August thought she was having an affair with Jacob ! And then the author uses paranoid schizophrenia to explain August 's behavior ? Seriously ? ! He 's just a possessive prick ! With good reason to be paranoid turns out since Jacob really IS after his wife.The only main character that was n't completely unlikable really was Walter aka Kinko but Jacob got him killed by being gasp ! a stupid dche.I 'm not surprised this book is so popular though . It 's a simple easy read with little to no thinking required . ",0
"Water for Elephants is loaded with interesting words because Sara Gruen owns a commanding vocabulary and utilizes her wellchosen words with precision . She also understands how to set the hook and carefully reel her reader in . She 's a master angler.The story is entertaining and the settinga train circus is interesting . Obviously Gruen heavy research is what birthed the rich detail.While some call this a romance book the romance is lacking and rushed . This is more of an actionadventure who done it . ",3
"I really did not know what to expect when I picked up this book but I am so glad that I did . It was a great story with wonderful lifelike characters . In parts it is funny and sad and also shocking when you read how some of the circus workers and animals were treated . I really hated to see it end . Do yourself a favor and read it you wo n't be sorry . ",4
"I was given this book to borrow It is just a wonderful book . I can not stand mediocre writing and for this reason I do n't often read popular fiction . I pushed into it however hoping for the best . Just could never care at all about the characters . The old guy is grumpy and resentful . Some of the circus behindthescenes reporting is interesting but much of that is pretty lowlife and tawdry . Not for me . I will read the ending and report back to my friend but I will not read the rest of it . ",1
"A fun read ! I learned a lot about the circus . Sara Gruen did an excellent job of depicting the circus experience in the early 20th century . ",3
"My hatred for this book knows no bounds . This is the trashiest thing to infiltrate the literature section of the bookstore since Henry Miller . Although I 'm not a Henry Miller expert I 'm guessing he at least brought some literary merit to the table which is more than I can say for this author ! The depressionera circus setting although intriguing was not enough to make up for the endless vulgarity flat characterization and vapid dialogue . And to make matters worse no character at least from the ones I can remember is spared horrific scenes of physical abuse you name it woman worker elephant dog clown . I just got tired of it all after a while.Why did I even bother to finish it ? It was sort of like watching Ripley 's Believe it or Not to see what kind of ghastly thing would happen next . Well now I believe it this is one of the worst contemporary books I 've read . ",0
"I honestly did n't know what to expect when I started WATER FOR ELEPHANTS but as I continued on hour after hour I realized what a terrific book it is ! Set in postDepression America and the Benzini Brother 's Circus WATER FOR ELEPHANTS is full of emotions and flashes of great humor . All the characters including the animals all have pivotal roles throughout the story . This book is a great blend of history mystery love story and memoir.Highly recommend with 5 stars ! ! ! ",4
"WATER FOR ELEPHANTS IS A RIVETING READ REVEALING THE UGLY UNDERSIDE OF DPRESSION ERA 'TRAIN CIRCUSES . ALONG WITH ACCOUNTS OF CRUELTY TO MAN AND BEAST ARE STORIES OF GENEROSITY AND KINDNESS . I HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS BOOK ALTHOUGH IT MAY BE TOO DISTURBING FOR SOME . I STARTED READING WITH MY GLASSES THEN GLASSES AND A MAGNIFYING GLASS AND FINALLY WITH DOUBLE VISION BECAUSE I COULD N'T PUT IT DOWN . ",4
"This is one of those books you do n't want to put down . A great read . I wish I could say from start to finish but I found the ending to be very weak and not in character with the rest of the book . Even so I would highly recommend this book . ",3
"Weird but still very interesting I enjoyed this book very much.. It had a very happy ending..I wanted to finish the book as soon as I opened it ",4
"This is one of the most fun books I have read . From page 1 all the way thru . I have laughed out loud at so many points and then sad at others . This is a fantastic read . I usually do n't like to read women authors Tess Gerritson and Alex Kava are the exceptions but Sara has done a great great job . I can hardly wait now to see the movie . I hope Sara had a lot to do with writing the movie script . So many really good books stories are ruined when it comes to be a movie . ",4
"In the beginning of Water For Elephants Jacob Jankowski tells us that he is 90 or 93 who can really be certain anymore ? His body betrayed him years ago and Jacob now fears that his mind is n't far behind . Shuffling along miserably behind his walker he 's living out his final days in the nursing home and hating every minute of it . Just another invisible senior citizen who 's family and the world as a whole has forgotten about.When the circus comes to town and sets up its Big Top tents across the street Jacob comes alive and through a series of flashbacks begins to tell us his life 's story . Taking us back to when he joined the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show On Earth a traveling circus he toured with during the great depression.At the age of 23 Jacob had a predictable future set out ahead of him one that certainly did n't involve joining the circus . However with his parents untimely death and the bank foreclosing on his family home Jacob soon finds himself homeless heartbroken and mentally quite unable to sit his final veterinary exams . When an exotic animal filled train steams toward him Jacob does n't even think . Flinging himself aboard the boxcar and inadvertently changing his destiny forever.I absolutely adored this book alternately falling in love with both Jacob the crotchety old man and Jacob the young moral and penniless circus veterinarian . Water For Elephants transported me to another time and quickly became one of those books I never wanted to end.Author Sara Gruen has researched the depression era circus life down to the smallest of details and I feel that this captivating and vivid story will appeal to almost anyone.Filled with action adventure and a sweet forbidden romance there is also a fascinating sideshow of secondary characters including a clever Polish Elephant a grouchy little person as Jacob 's roommate and a cruel and schizophrenic animal trainer whose wife Jacob just happens to fall in love with . All of this has been wrapped together with a compelling and innovative behind the scenes look aboard a travelling circus train . Showing us more often then not the darker side of circus life after the big top closes down . This is a love story a life story an animal lover 's story but above all it 's a circus story and who of us has n't dreamed about running away and joining the circus at some point in our lives ? And the ending sighI ca n't say enough good about this book its easily one of my favourite reads this year and with Robert Pattison now taking on the upcoming movie role version of Jacob I was able to picture him while reading making it all the more sweeter . ",4
"Not going to lie I bought this so I could read it before the movie came out Robert Pattinson fan P. While it was an easy read I did n't love it . I found it difficult to appreciate the circus life with the description of it but the characters were interesting . The ending surprised me so I loved that ! Nothing worse than a predictable novel . There were many endearing and HUMAN situations and characters of the novel so I found myself rooting for some characters and hating others . Not every book I read invokes that kind of emotion in me.This story is a somewhat of a page turner and again an easy read but there was some kind of disconnect . I ca n't quite define what was missing from this book but I think it 's worthwhile . Would be great for a book club . ",2
"Water For Elephants is one of the best books I have read this year . Initially I did not have any interest in reading this book because it involved a circus and I am not a huge fan of circuses . But at the insistence of some friends I picked it up and began reading . Boy am I glad I did ! Jacob Jankowski is a young man who is thrust mercilessly into the aftermath of the cruelties of life . Despite his circumstances however he is a good and honorable man and his compassion and honor shine through on every page of this book . He is a character that reader 's immediately fall in love with and can relate to on some level or another . The story itself grabs you instantly and takes you back to a time where traveling circuses were the biggest events in town.Set in the 1930 's Water For Elephants offers a glimpse into a very strange and wonderous world of circus folk during a time when many if not most of the country was unemployed and doing anything they could to earn a buck or at least a meal . It was fascinating to read of the lifestyle of the circus workers and how they were treated how they related to one another how they treated their animals and what they thought of the townspeople they traveled the country to entertain.Water For Elephants is also a story that tells of the love and life of Jacob and Merlena and their love for the animals that they come to know while working with them in the circus . The book is beautifully and vividly written the characters well developed and easy to love or hate as the case may be and the animals ' antics especially Rosie will make you laugh out loud.Water For Elephants is a wonderful read and I highly recommend it ! ",4
"I just spent the last fifteen minutes looking at the reviews ~~ and it 's very interesting to read all the comments as well . There are so many varied responses to this book that the author must be in heaven to get so many responses to this book.I first heard of this book last spring when a fellow Amazon reviewer told me that I just had to read it . I was n't that inclined since the price was not favorable and the waiting list at the library was too long . However in my book club it was the November book to discuss . So when I saw it on the table at the local bookstore for buy three get one free I snapped it up . It is not a decision that I have regretted . It is one of the better entertaining books of fiction that I have read this year if not one of the best . And I read a lot.There are some disaparities in this book as with others but I think people tend to forget that a work of fiction is simply that a work of fiction . Not everything 's going to mesh together as in real life . That 's why you read nonfiction if you like everything in its proper place and order . This book is simply a fanastic tale of a man facing the end of his life in a dreary nursing home setting and reliving some of the best moments of his life . A young orphan who happened to jump the train to get away from the tragedy that was his life happened to be on a circus train . He did n't plan to run away to the circus he just stumbled on the circus train while grieving . And stayed . Fell in love with the most beautiful girl in the world who is happened to be married to the ringmaster . What a story ! This novel alternates between Jacob 's present and past ~~ he relives the first three months of being in Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth . Jacob is 90 or 93 he ca n't remember which and seventy years prior he was the Benzini Brothers ' vet taking care of the underfed animals of that show . He worked with all kinds of people and animals . It was an exciting life ~~ how many people do you know that lived a life like that ? Marlena is the wife of the psychotic ringmaster who alternately abused his wife his animals and coworkers . Rosie is the elephant bull that Uncle Al the owner of the circus bought for a song hoping that Rosie will be the biggest draw to his circus.The descriptions in this novel are lavish . One can see the sawdust in the air as the big top was put up . One can see the cotton candy being spun . One can feel the humiliation of an old man having to take a shower under the watchful eye of the nurse in the nursing home . One can feel his love for the beautiful show girl . And all of this is tied together beautifully both past and present . It is a glimpse into a life of a man.Why did n't I give it a five star ? Simply because I felt that the endings to both stories were rushed . I did not expect it to have such happy endings since the stories were more gritty and realistic . But hey this is a work of fiction right ? 11407 ",3
"Since it washas been made into a movie . And as usual the book is always better than the movie . But the movie does follow the book pretty well . You just do n't get the back story on everything that you do by reading the book . ",4
"I know that not one book is for everyone but I honestly can not imagine someone not loving Water For Elephants . I did n't go into it expecting to fall in love but that 's exactly what I did . The story told through an elderly and retirementhome bound Jacob Jankowski takes us on a journey as he recalls life on the circus . Hopping on a train Jacob is looking for an escape from life at home where he has lost everything dear to him . He discovers that the old train is carting a circus show and eventually gets himself a job . Along the way he falls in love with the majestic circus act the amazing animals and of course the young and beautiful Marlena.I was repeatedly impressed by the great and believable depth of the characters in this book including Marlena 's illtempered and abusive husband August . Jacobthe main character stays strong and consistent throughout the entire story . I liked how he came to the rescue of all in need and did n't back down when the going got tough . His heroic acts and the fantastic tale that go along with it make this a fivestar read in my book ! ",4
"Interesting book that makes you want to keep reading but in the end it seems like the author tried too hard to wrap things up and make everyone happy.I find that the best way to make reviews helpful is by adding a list of books I love and books I hated . That way you can compare and determine whether you and I have similar tastes . So here is my listBooks I love or at at least really really likeWe Need to Talk about Kevin.Tell the Wolves I 'm HomeWhen the Emperor Was DivineThe History of HistoryThe Remains of the DayWe Have Always Lived in the CastleThe Night CircusWater for ElephantsThe Sisters BrothersThe Poisonwood BibleBooks I REALLY hatedThe Bear in a Muddy Tutu1Q84The Buddha of SuburbiaA Visit from the Goon SquadSun StormA Long Way DownWhen We Were OrphansThe Haunting of Hill House ",2
"Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen is a pleasurable book to read . Among its many virtues is Guren 's recreation of the atmosphere of depression era America and a unique circus subculture that existed in what now must be viewed as the lost past . Leading this tale is a genuinely likeable guy a rarity in contemporary literature . This hugely popular book is without serious lessons to preach or meaning to convey . Rather it is a good story which provided me with many hours of pleasant diversion . ",4
"Water for Elephants is an interesting text because it is not especially well written the story is pure soap opera and yet it is an enjoyable read that at times evokes a long gone era . I think it suffers from overly effusive praise and so many readers are bitterly disappointed once they get through it.First let 's look at the strengths of the novel . I enjoyed the evocations of circus and train life . Gruen clearly spent some time working on these descriptions of circus life and there are little Depression era details that were nice historical jewels for the reader to mine . Also effective was her characterization of old Jacob . His voice was witty and biting and he provided the most pleasure of any character in the text . Chapter nineteen of the novel is the saddest depiction of rest home life I have read in literature . A man is forgotten by his family and the scene is heartbreaking.Now to examine the reasons why this book is unsatisfying . First off the characters from the 1930s parts of the novel are some of the weakest characterizations I have seen in a book in a long time . They are stock characters at best and the villains are the mustache twirling men from melodrama . It is hard to care about any of the characters because they are so transparently fake . Even more distracting then the weak characterization is the incredibly insipid and modern sounding dialogue Gruen puts in their mouths . She has such nice historical details in the setting of the text why could n't she also use it in the dialogue ? Many readers have found the ending unsatisfying and although it is ridiculous it fits the novel so I wo n't argue with it . The cloying depiction of animals is also a little beyond the pale but again I simply had to come to terms with the novel for what it is . It is popular fiction . It is a melodrama you will get caught up in . And for those purposes it is adequate . Do n't go into it expecting more than what it is capable of giving and you will be satisfied . ",2
"We find ourselves in the beginning at a nursing home with the elderly Jacob Jankowski 's . When the circus comes to town We begin to find out that Jacobs memory is still there and he takes you back to an era in the Great Depression.As a young man Jacob 's life gets upended and he finds himself on a circus train . They realize that Jacob with his training to become a vet will be of some use to the circus . He falls victim to the ups and downs of life on the circus train and the beauty of the main act Marlena . And falls in love with the larger than life Rosie the Elephant . Everything and everyone is subjected to the mercy of the cruel circus boss and Marlena 's husband.This story is really engaging . I personally found myself laughing at the antics of the circus family cringing at the reality of the cruel act of red lighting . And furious when the circus bosses cruelty reached horrifyingly to everyone and everything . ",3
"I found this book to be a very touching story with an interesting setting . The time period the place and the characters come to life in this wonderful story . I do n't want to give too much away but if you enjoy a book that makes you feel as though you are therethis is one ! There were times while reading this I wanted to throw a few punches and other times I wanted to stand between August & Rosie and times I just wanted to pat the hand of the older Jacob . I 'm sorry I finished this bookI will miss these characters . ",4
"If you have not yet read Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen you wo n't want to miss it . It 's historical fiction that takes us back to the 1st Great Depression and into the world of the circus . A fantastic read and hard to put down.Caution howeverchances are after reading this phenomenal historical account of the innerworkings of the circus you may very well NEVER attend another one . I have had to set the book down several times due to how emotionally challenging it can be.Added bonus The Kindle edition of this book includes historical photographs of circus life reprinted with permissions from various museums . I am unsure whether this is an eBook feature only or if these pictures are also included in the printed edition . I would imagine that they are . The photos alone tell their own story.My rating ? And I am admittedly a bookworm and literary 'snob ' that takes these rating very seriously 5 solid stars both for historical accuracy AND phenomenal character development plot design and writing style . I do n't give ratings that high unless novels REALLY shine and this one stands out and will forever leave it 's imprint on you the reader . Happy reading ! ",4
"This was an unexpectly good book . There are really two stories in it and I enjoyed both completely . I loved the end . ",4
"I had heard alot about this book before reading it and read so many positve comments and reviews but tried to go into it with an open mind so I could decide for myself ! I was not disappointed it was a terrific book so well written full of rich history . It was difficult to put down ! ",4
"I did n't know what to expect when I ordered this book but was quickly drawn into the storyline . As the daughter of an aging parent I could empathize with the main character . The story was developed well even with the flipping from the past to the current time . At times I had a hard time putting the book down . I had not seen the movie but I will download it now so the ending was a real surprise to me . I enjoyed it immensely . ",4
"I thoroughly enjoyed this book from beginning to end ! I now have a new respect for Circus people and animals . I could n't put the book down . ",4
"I read this book not too long after it came out I had borrowed it then and decided it was so good to go ahead and buy a copy for myself . I love it ! ! It was full of emotion and excitement . Sara Gruen is an excellent author.I just bought her other book Ape House and I ca n't wait to get into it ",4
"Life 's a bitch and then you get old and it 's worse and then you die . That 's all you need to know which is a good thing because this novel has left me too depressed to write any more . ",0
"I just finished reading Water for Elephants and thought this book was pretty good . I really could not put the book down ! I had to force myself to close the book because If I wanted to I could finish it in a day . I choose to read this book since it had such high ratings . I 'm glad I picked it up . ",3
"I really enjoyed this book ! I enjoyed the imagery of the circus and the settings the historical facts of both the Great Depression and circuses during that time period and I enjoyed learning more about circuses and the treatment of circus animals overall ! There were parts that were disturbing the mistreatment of circus animals the mistreatment of circus employees and the abuse of the lead woman . But overall the plot was engaging and unique . I especially enjoyed the flashback moments of the present lead character and his reminiscence of the past . Make sure to read the Prologue ! it adds to the artistic nature of the writing style.I have n't seen the movie yet hope it 's as good as the book . ",4
"From August 2009I 'm still working out how I feel about this book . It was so well written goes seamlessly between the past and the present . The love story was it between he and Marlena or he and Rosie ? was lyrically written . The author did an amazing job of pulling me back and forth between the two . I even shed a few tears over a few different things . I 'm not an animal activist but certain parts of this book made me very uncomfortable . The history of the circus is pretty well known . We know the animals were mistreated heck they are today too but the author writes so well about this subject that I found it hard to swallow that lump in my throat . It 's obvious she did some major research into the subject matter.When I originally read the description for this book it was on my skip it list but a few of my friends read it and told me I had to read it . I 'm so glad they did . This was a beautiful book and definitely in my top 10 for the year.=======================February 2010I read this one just six months ago but someone in my book club chose it so I decided to reread it . It 's always interesting when I read a book a second time especially if it was one that I really enjoyed and this was definitely a book I enjoyed immensely.I noticed things I did n't notice in the first read probably because I knew what was going to happen so I found a lot of the little quirky foreshadowing and things . The prologue of course caught me and a lot of ahhh moments.This is a book you must read . It really is that simple . I had looked at it a few times but it really did n't look like anything I would want to read so I kept skipping it . A friend of mine insisted I read it last year and I 'm glad she did . It 's absolutely wonderful ! Read it . ",4
"A great story from beginning to end . The information about life working for the Big Top is entertaining and absorbing . Drama excitement hardship and a love story make this an excellent read . ",4
"I really enjoyed this since it is a topic you do n't really read about too oftenHowever the last page sort of ruins it . I mean COME ON . It 's just not plausible within the confines of the narrative . ",3
"This book is very enjoyable from beginning to end . It starts with a narration in the present and weaves in events from the narrators past . The style is fluid and non pretentious engaging for its simplicity and character development . This book feels real when it presents its characters and you ca n't help but get entwined with the sentiments they live . I have n't seen the movie but I 'm glad I read the book first . The story revolves around Jakob a retired circus vet which relates how he came to be involved in the circus world of the 30 's and all he lived through while the show went on . The story depicts life through the depression prohibition and society as a fitting background for the storyline . ",4
"Wow . This book was just spectacular . I tore through it it grabbed me and would not let go . How many books do you see a fifteenyearold my niece reading while walking up stairs ? She could not stop reading it to climb the stairs ! It was an amazing ride . I can not imagine that ANYONE would not love this book.I read two of Sara Gruen 's earlier books and this is in a different category a tour de force an absolute mustread . What a lovely book . You end up feeling grateful to her for writing it just so you could read it . I can not say enough about how great this book was an enthralling story enthrallingly told absolutely marvelous . ",4
"I liked the story because it was different than other books I have read . The setting characters and plot were unique and very interesting . I liked how the story was told from both the older and younger Jacob 's point of view . ",4
"I purchased this book reluctantly since it did n't sound like my cup of tea . I mainly wanted to read it before I saw the movie which is the order I like to do this especially when I can see the movie and then refer back to the book to refresh my memory . But in spite of myself I enjoyed the book very much and read it into the late hours last nightand early morning because I did n't want to go to sleep until I finished it ! I like the way the author goes back and forth in time it is well done and easy to follow sometimes this device can get confusing if not properly handled ! I 'm not much of a circus person of course I went when I was a child then again with children and grandchildren but I had a fear of animals that has been only partially conquered thanks to my grandson 's love of them . I have always stood in the back of crowds at Mardi Gras parades due to my major fear of horses ! But this book to me was enough about the human side as to make the circus details palatable even interesting.I especially enjoyed the story line at the retirement community since I have a good friend who works at one and I used to advertise for the place when I had a radio talk show called Life Begins at 50 . Needless to say I am a senior myself and without giving away too much information I felt that the scenes there were very real . I would highly recommend this book especially to seniors and their families not only for the enjoyment but for the relationship insights therein . ",3
"This book reminded me of the movie Benjamin Button . The format of an old man looking back at his life was reminiscent of the regretful and poignant tone in the movie.The story is told by Jacob half about his life now as a 90year old man forgotten by his family in a nursing home . The other half is about Jacob 's life as a young man in the circus . Jacob runs off to join the circus literally when he is just about to graduate from college . Devastated by the loss of his family and fortune he turns to the only thing he knows and lovesthe one connection he has to his veterinarian fatherthe animals . Jacob gets a job 'watering the elephants ' and one grouchy elephant in particular as he works as the circus animal veterinarian . Jacob also has the really dumb luck of falling for Marlena a trick horse rider . Marlena just happens to be married to the circus boss a sadistic man who beats her and the elephants . The whole situation is a powder keg waiting to explode.Interspersed with this is the story of presentday Jacob and his longing so tender and sad that pulls on the heartstrings . It is a sweet tragic romance.I loved the parts that explained how the traveling carnivals worked . It was so fascinating knowing that many incidents were based on real actual events . A heavy book with lots of good ingredients that will leave you satisfied . ",3
"One of the best books I read in 2007 . Sara Gruen is a great storyteller . ",4
"The plot is uncomplicated the characters are not memorable but the setting is the key ! Depression literature has been depressing . However the story about how real people handled it in an unusual setting is delightful . In addition the details about the circus are enlightening . ",4
"When Jacob Jankowski 's parents died in an automobile accident he was just about to become a Veterinarian.But with that shock and the shock of finding out that his parents did n't leave him the financial comforts that he had thought were there Jacob did n't take his last college exam . And he wondered into the life of a circus where he learned a great deal about the human condition and about animals.During these tough Depression Era days he lived in filth but the animals meant a great deal to him . So he applied what he had learned at Cornell University Veterinarian School to protect the animals and anyone who he loved.This book was a story about love loss and finding what matters most to you when you 've loss what seemed to be all that mattered . ",4
"For the most part this was a moving and fascinating story . Well written the characters were vivid and appealing even at times the villains . However I found the way the story ended to be somewhat trite and not at all believable.Although the loyalty and brotherhood among circus people was clearly portrayed throughout the end of the story reduced this excellent portrait of a mysterious and esoteric world into a fairytale . For me the lovely flight ended with a thud from a delicious learning experience to an insult to my intelligence . ",2
"I had no anticipation of what to expect when I began reading Water for Elephants . The most enlightening aspect of the story was the education I received about the hierarchy of employees within the circus . From an outsider who has always been taught but never believed it that people in the circus where of lower class than others I had no idea there were different ranks of people within the circus . Life behind the scenes at the circus was crude and inhumane . From the beginning the book was colorful with characters . The transitioning between the past and the present with the main character was an interesting transition.I try to approach a book with an open mind and throw other opinions out the window . I am pleased I have done this because the people that I know who have read this book have ranged from horrible to excellent . I found this book entertaining and engrossing . It was never a book that I just could not put down but I enjoyed read it . Because the era in which the reference of the circus occurred the comparison of food lines and the great depression was evident . Although the inhumane treatment of the people and animals undoubtedly occurred during this time period it was n't easy to read it . Although the hierarchy of the class of people was evident within the circus it was not unlike how society actually was during this time period . The author clearly did research to solidly base the sad realities of the treatment of people and animals during the depression era.The author weaved a story with vivid characters and animal characters in a sympathetic and favorable light . Sara Gruen 's engaging Water for Elephants is an eminently American work set in the depths of the Depression and featuring a brokenhearted young man whose unplanned existential leap of faith catapults him into a chaotic and unknown way of life . Jacob Jankowski discovers his untapped reservoir of courage conviction and compassion and in so doing he in every manner of the American definition of the word emerges as a hero . Water for Elephants is a triumph of a writer fully in control of her craft of a character resolute in his determination to discover life and of a depiction of ideas that truly embody our national character.After all of this being said I am on the fence as to whether this book lives up to all the buzzes and even deserving of being made a movie . There is nothing more satisfying than when you finish a book and you feel like you also were part of the adventure . I do not regret reading this book I only wish it was more engrossing . ",2
"Enjoyable reading . I never really knew much about the circus and this was an inside glance probably set in truth . ",3
"No I wo n't forget WATER FOR ELEPHANTS any time soon . The prologue is one of the best I 've read in a long time . I actually called a friend and ready it to her out loud . The characters in particular Rosie the elephant and Jacob are accurate and tender each in their own sometimes sad and poignant way . This book is a summer hit for a reasonit 's an enjoyable read filled with the peculiarities of circus life that intrigue and woo all who are drawn to such a menagerie known as the Greatest Show on Earth . ~Carol D. O'Dell ",3
"Even though I do not patronize circuses & did n't want to read about one this was certainly interesting steeping the reader in the Depression times and all that it implied & actually doing exactly what the author intended hissing the bad guy & loving the couple who surmount all odds & win in the end . ",3
"I liked the way this novel was written some in the present and then in the past . Satisfying ending . ",3
"BOOK IS BOTH OF HISTORICAL VALUE AND WONDERFUL LOVE STORY ALONG WITH GREAT PORTRAYAL OF INVISIBILITY OF OLD AGE THROWN IN . ",4
"Water for Elephants is a fun read . It 's not a profound work but as entertainment it works well . I really admire the detail and characterization . My favorite character ? The elephant . ",3
"I loved this book . I loved the circus atmosphere and the story . It was exceptionally wellwritten and I enjoyed every page.We have a vet student joining a circus with mistreated animals he 's frantically trying to save and protect . We have a lovable elephant . The narrator is an old man looking back and he recounts his tale in the immediacy of present tense as he describes situations that happened decades earlier . Interesting and very effective choice to write in present tense throughout.The ONLY thing that keeps me from giving the book five stars was the lack of character development for Marlena . Throughout the story I understood the protagonist loved her but she seemed to be the woman tied to the railroad tracks throughout Nell being constantly tormented by Snidely Whiplash and I never really got a sense of her as a person . Maybe I missed it not surprising I read the book in daily spurts while I walked a treadmill but I did n't even know how old she was . I got a much clearer picture of minor characters like Rosemary Kinko and Camel than I ever did of her.I also never understood the whole water for elephants thing that the protagonist railed about in the beginning of the book . Perhaps it was something else I missed.Nevertheless I loved the book I loved the ending and I know I 'll go back to read it again . ",3
"Well I spent 30 minutes writing a thorough review for one of the best books I 've read in a long time andit 's been three daysand it 's not showing up . I ca n't recreate what took so long to write so I 'll just saythis book is woooonderful . I hated for it to end . ",4
"This is a wonderful book . Beautifully written and thoroughly engrossing . An absolute pleasure . Highly and enthusiastically recommended . ",4
"I still have n't watched the movie and do n't intend to . The book was amazing and I read it in about 2 days because I just could n't put it down ! ",4
"Reading a good book is a chance to run off with the circusto escape into a fun and exciting world totally unlike one 's own . This is Gruen 's gift to her readers . I got completely absorbed in the double stories of the old man in assisted living and the young man in the circus . By starting her book with the reflections of an old person looking back this novel reminded me of Evening as well as Snow Flower and the Secret Fan . The blackandwhite photos add a lot too . The historic photo on page 70 of the socalled gentleman freak is shocking is n't it ? A fastpaced enjoyable book.Carol Weston author of Melanie Martin novels for children and teen advice booksGirltalk Fourth Edition All the Stuff Your Sister Never Told You . ",4
"A wonderful story ! If nothing else this is an insight into the aging process . As a child growing up in the 40 's my dad took me to watch the set up of Ringling Brother 's Circus when it came to town and we went back that night to watch the teardown . I never saw a show until I was 12 years old and worked watering horses for my pass into the show . I remember getting to hold a very small tiger cub that had been recently born . It was a thrill I will never forget . So very glad that a friend told me to read Water for Elephants . I am sure that I will reread it again in the future . Buy it ! You wo n't be sorry if you remember the circus coming to town ! ",4
"As I 've started to branch out to reading a different type of book Water for Elephants caught my eye so I had to pick it up . I am so glad that I did ! The setting was so raw and gritty and having it based on the history of circuses made it that much more fascinating . Sara Gruen was able to describe things so that I could easily picture the settings and all the circus workers . I just hope that the movie lives up to the book ! ",3
"Wonderful book . It kept my attention through the entire book . I did wish there had been more on their life together later . ",4
"Water for Elephants is a compelling story told from the memory of a ninetyone or ninetythreeyearold man named Jacob Jankowski . The story begins as Jacob prepares to sit for his veterinary exams at Cornell University . He receives word that his parents have been killed in a car accident and things go downhill from there . He ends up as part of a circus and the next threeandahalf months are mostly a living hell except for Marlena.The story goes back and forth between the present time in the assistedliving home where Jacob resides and his memories of the past . His childrengrandchildrengreat grandchildren take turns visiting him but firstborn son Simon misses the most important day of all . In the end this misstep creates for Jacob and the reader a most satisfying end to a moving and heartwarming life story . A bonus in this book is what the reader learns about circus life in the early part of the 20th century most of which is pretty nasty.As I care for my aged mother in her home I am very grateful that we have been able to keep her here . This book provides a perspective from the viewpoint of the very elderly who while not as quick on all fronts as they once were are still thinking feeling beings.Carolyn Rowe Hill ",4
"I loved the first 90 % of this book . Whenever I opened it to read I fell right into circus life in the 1930s as told by the 93yearold main character looking back on his life of 70 years previous . My complaint is that the ending seemed rushed and contrived . There were lose ends that did n't make sense . For all of the reality of the first part of the book the end seemed too fantastic . Did the editor say Wrap it up all ready ! ? I think this would make a TERRIFIC moviejust wait for the rights to be sold . A good summer read too . ",3
"This book provided a vivid illustration . I could see the story playing in my head . I recommend this book as a great way to spend a Sunday afternoon ",4
"I do n't care what the reviews say I thought Water for Elephants was a great read and I thoroughly enjoyed it . I thought Jacob 's stories both in the past and in the present were extremely well written . I found his innocence and charm as a young man quite enchanting . Would n't it be grand if all young men were as courteous and as sweet as the young Jacob Jankowski ? I also really liked the crotchety 90year old Jacob whose temper tantrums and emotional outbursts were most certainly justified . The loss of independence is something that we all fear even more so when a person has lived a long and full life only to be left alone in a senior 's home to die.I also thought Marlena 's character was wellwritten . Divorce in the 1920s and 1930s was unheard of and I can only imagine how awful it must have been for a woman to realize that she had to endure the rest of her life with someone she despised . I found myself wondering when she was going to make the decision to live for herself rather than do what everyone expected her to do . Then again she had already made that decision once by leaving her family so I expected that she would come to the right decision at some point.As for Gruen 's research into circus life during the Depression I think that she did a fantastic job . America during the Great Depression is such a fascinating piece of history and when you add the excitement of an allAmerican circus show to the mix it becomes ever more so . All in all Water for Elephants was a great read and I will be sure to recommend it to my family and friends . ",3
"LOVED this book . It is now one of my all time favorites . A must read for anyone . Has romance animals and a thriller . Has a little of everythimg for anyone . Have already recommended it to people . ",4
"Water for Elephants entertains and enlightens the reader with vibrant characters that jump from the page . They paint a picture of life in the circus in the late 1930 's sometimes grand and often tragic . ",4
"I lent it to my mother and bought this paper back version for my daughter . She shared it with all her friends . Much different story than the movie . ",4
"Jacob Jankowski is 93 years old but do n't let his age fool you He 's still sharp as a tack . He lives in an assisted living facility where he 's forced to eat food he does n't like and socialize with residents who are younger but far worse off than himself . As he faces the realities of his advanced age and begins to deal with the ravages of time on his body Jacob reflects on his younger years when he worked as a veterinarian for a traveleing circus known as the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth . He joins the circus at 23 at the height of the Great Depression right after his parents are killed in a car accident and right before he graduates from veterinary school.Most of WATER FOR ELEPHANTS is written in flashback taking readers back to Jacob 's beautiful and strange years with the circus during the 1920s and '30s . While working for the circus Jacob falls in love with two girls Marlena the circus 's star performer and Rosie a bull elephant no one else seems to want . But there are complications of course Marlena 's husband August is the equestrian director of the circusand he 's also very possessive obsessive unpredictable and cruel not past beating both his wife and his animals if they do n't adhere to his commands . But Jacob 's love for Marlena and Rosie transcends all this and it will change his life he has no way of knowing how much . Now as an old man near the end of it all trapped in a body he does n't recognize Jacob clings to his memories to the vestiges of his younger years as if they are a life raft.WATER FOR ELEPHANTS is the story of Jacob Jankowski 's lifegritty surreal full of vibrance and love . In her third novel Sara Gruen brings to life a dazzling cast of characters in a vivid landscape littleexplored in contemporary fiction . The world she has created for her readers is well otherworldly magical and strange and startlingly real . Her Depressionera train circus resounds with authenticity she borrows anecdotes from her research and uses circus slang to add a sense of immediacy to the experience . Her prose is simple and unpretentious poetic in its own way . Simply put WATER FOR ELEPHANTS is just lovely ! I ca n't say anything bad about WATER FOR ELEPHANTS I think it deserves every bit of praise it receives . Jacob is such a compelling character so utterly welldrawn . His vibrancy as a young man jumps off the page at you so does his frustration with being trapped in a withering body as an old man . Gruen 's tale moves back and forth in time seamlessly and it 's obvious how much she cares about her characterseven the nonhuman ones . Her love story is impeccably researched alternately heartbreaking and hopeful romantic and violent . And the ending ? it 's absolutely perfect . WATER FOR ELEPHANTS took me somewhere no other piece of fiction ever hasand I can honestly say I enjoyed every page of the journey . ",4
"Can not say enough about this book so all I will say is I could not put it down and never wanted it to end . ",4
"What a delightful book ! I learned so much about the circus and its workings truly a treasure . In between all the depressing issues there were moments of true goodness and hope . I 've recommended it to all my reading friends . ",3
"What an amazing story ! Such interesting details about circus lifescary and gripping and funny and sweet all at once . The characters were so carefully drawn that I really felt for them and wanted to know even more about them . I was beguiled and spellbound to the very end . ",4
"I was n't sure about this book when I chose it but it turned out to be a wonderful read ! I enjoyed reading about the circus secrets both pleasant and ugly and the drama in the love story was completely plausible and the old Jacob was delightful . As a person who lives 30 minutes away from the PT Barnum Museum in Bridgeport Connecticut and has visited it often I just could picture all of this and I loved it . ",3
"Good book caught my attention right away with all the details about circus life . I really enjoyed reading it . My only qualm is with the ending because it 's a little too pat for my taste . Life does n't ever end up so nice . ",3
"heard about this book from a friend and was unable to put it down ! as a healthcare worker the character of older jacob has insights all should be aware of and consider . vivid imagery and a fascinating plot . highly reccomended ",4
"This book surprised me . I usually do n't read the summaries on the book jackets because I find that it spoils the story for me and so I did n't really know what to expect from this book . However by the end of the book I was thoroughly fulfilled . I loved the author 's insight into seeing things from the perspective of the 90 or 93 yo main character . I found I could n't put the book down once started . I also liked the Q & A commentary at the back of the book telling how the author researched circus life especially the story about Rosie to include in the novel . Great storytelling ! ",3
"I was very eager to read this novel . The picture on the cover intrigued me that 's as far as the fascination went . The book was not very interesting . It read like a documentary with a few poorly written graphic scenes to keep its readers reading . I finished it but would n't read it and again and wo n't recommend it . ",1
"I could n't put this book down . I have seen the awards it won but never thought about getting it I wondered who this Sara Gruen is never read her books . SO I did n't go out of my way to pick it up . Somebody brought it in to work . We have a bookshelf full of books that we share . I saw it and thought OK now I am going to read that it is here I keep seeing it I am taking the plunge ! How wonderful . I was completely and totally into the book after reading the first 45 pages . I could n't put it down . I loved it this is n't my type of book normally . However it is a great read . I felt like I was standing next to the big top through the whole book . Get it read it and enjoy it that is the purpose of this book . ",4
"I loved this book it was n't something I would have normally read . I was given this book by a friend and I was amazed that I got so into it . ",4
"spoiler alert Before I picked this much talked about book particularly since the film came out I heard from a few friends that they could n't read it because of the animal abuse . When I thought that 's what the book was about I actually did n't want to read it either not because I care so much but because I 'm not quite as impassioned on the topic . It 's not that I 'm heartless or ignorant of that . It 's just that I do n't need to read anything about that topic to make me feel the injustice . But with the hype and since I love to compare books to film I figured I had to read it before I saw the film with Edwardahem I mean Robert Pattinson and Reese Witherspoon . So I did and immediately I was drawn in . I enjoyed how the narrative sliced between present day retirement home and past circus life . I appreciated the difficulties and heartaches of dealing with old age and time passing with loneliness and loss of certain freedoms with death . Of course I also loved how the two main characters grew fell in love and fought against the obstacles to be together.It actually reminded me of Sparks ' The Notebook . So if you liked that and you like the circus this is definitely the read for you . And for those animal rights activists I did n't find the scenes of animal abuse that offensive . That topic is definitely a character in the book and certainly touched upon vividly BUT it 's not accepted as just fact . It 's shown for just what it ishorrendousand that seems to make it more palatable . So I would encourage the read anyway . ",4
"Take a chance and read this book . It is wonderfully written . Such an interesting book to take the lead character and having him in a nursing home thinking of his life and what a great life . What a heart warming story . I 'm fascinated by the freakish carnivale life and this did n't disappoint but uphold that theory ! If you 're in for an uplifting tale of struggle and happiness in an unexpected way you 've found the perfect allaround book . Enjoy ! ",4
"Everyone was talking about it last summer and my book club decided to read it . I was very disappointed . Characters were not believable there was too much cruelty to animals and violence here nobody I really liked except the dwarf and the back and forth from the young man to the nursing home got very dreary . I skipped a lot of pages because the early part was so boring . ",1
"I loved this book . I 'd been hearing so much about it prior to the film that I decided I had to read it . No one had really told me what the book was about so I was more than pleasantly surprised at the subject matter . I have always had an interest in the Great Depression and riding the Circus Train during that time period with Jacob was one of the best trips of my life . Sara Gruen 's writing is descriptive and made me feel like I was actually involved in the lives of her characters . It was an easy read but a cause for dismay when it ended . I wanted it to go on and on . I definitely recommend this book to anyone who just enjoys a good story . ",4
"I did enjoy this book although I would n't say it was great . Maybe best for a easy poolside read . The characters were fun and the story believable . Worth the read . ",2
"I could not help but notice that reading Sarah Gruen 's Water For Elephants is very much like watching the movie Titanic . First and foremost each offers big historic pageantry with a rousing you are there quality . Each features two parallel narratives from the same protagonist one in advanced age one in a defining passage in young adulthood . Both feature a romantic triangle involving a young woman who is a victim of her times stuck in a marriage or engagement to a cruel powerful man and the young man of no means who becomes her soulmate and savior . Both send the young man to a fancy dress dinner in a borrowed tux . Both create insular worlds that are set apart from the rest of the earth one by an ocean the other by the trainbound peripatetic exotica of circus life and within that insular world there is a class structure inspiring social commentary . Both the Titanic creators and Gruen took admirable artistic risks in going to material that nobody else was treating and both did their homework on historical detail.Water For Elephants is about circus life in the early years of the Great Depression . It successfully captures glimpses of the American experience and opens up the closed world of the circus that is at once a very dangerous place and a warm sanctuary . Gruen does not spare the gritty reality of disregard for human and animal life . She succeeds in creating a very delicately balanced community that can slide into disaster if shoved off balance . Thinking on the living conditions she portrays sometimes you have to ask why would anyone stick with this mess ? For the narrator Jacob Jankowski it is love for animals friends and the aforementioned girl.Water For Elephants is like the Titanic a large scale entertainment but when it comes down to it there is no one line or character that is surprising except perhaps for the elephant . The book is well crafted but not artistic . It may have been very different in the hands of John Steinbeck or EL Doctorow . That said Gruen gets points for following through on her inspiration and delivering a book that is very atmospheric and historically interesting with some social commentary mixed in.This edition comes with a worthwhile interview with Gruen and a book club discussion guide that is more like a junior high English class test . ",3
"What a terrific readIt also intrigued me to learn more about the history of the circus and possible trip to a circus museum in Florida.There should definitely be a movie on this book.recommend it ! ",4
"Sara Gruen delivers a readable tale that 's a tad too formulaic to be fully engaging . In the same way that the narrator of the story insists from personal experience that it is impossible to carry enough water to slake an elephant 's thirst I 'd insist that this container does n't hold enough water to satisfy a serious reader.Also noted the description of animals and animal behaviors is approximately cartoony and takes away from the whole.On the flip side it is an easy read that wo n't occupy more than an evening and Gruen does offer up some fascinating historical details about oldstyle railroad circuses which altogether comes off as plausibly true . ",2
"This is one book I did n't want to end ! I read it in one day just ca n't put it down ! Eventhough the scenes go back and forth between the circus and the nursing home Sara Gruen made the scenes flow almost seamlessly . It made me wish that I was there in the circus . The scenes in the nursing home made me want to go to one and just hug the elederly residents there . This book is definitely the BEST ! ! ! ! ! ",4
"Water for elephants is one of the best books l 've read in sometime.Hard to quit reading once you start.highly recommended for all adults . ",4
"Frankly all of the good things have been said about this book by other reviewers . I can only thank Public Radio that had a review of it . Otherwise I would not have heard of it.One of the things that the book points out is how tough life was during the depression . American today have no concept of what it was like for people who earned no money had no money and had no place to go . There were no homeless shelters no social security . It was a different world.Gruen does a great job of showing the read the America of the Depression years and also tells a wonderful story . ",4
"The prologue to this book put me off a little containing as it did a very descriptive act of violence but I persevered since someone had recommended this book to me . Two more very ugly explicit and disgusting sexualized scenes in the very early pages had me deleting the whole thing and not reading any further . I 'm told this has been made into a movie which not only beggars belief but illustrates why I rarely find a movie these days that is worth watching . ",0
"Purchased book based on reviews and I am a firm believer of reading a book before viewing the movie . The author does a great job of transporting you to this era and what it actually like to be apart of a great circus traveling by train . The author gives very detailed and explicit images of the scenery animals costumes and characters.However there are not smooth transitions from character to character due to the main character telling the story as an older man and hid younger self . It was hard sometimes to distinguish the difference between characters so much so I had to go back and reread a page an then be like oh okay this is so and so.SPOILER ALERT BELOWI did n't care for the ending of this book either . I did n't think that it was realistic for the main character to leave his nursing home without aide since in the story he can barely make it from the table to the window . Also he can barely button 3 buttons on his shirt so how is he going to sell tickets at the booth to the circus ? He meets a young man and he just volunteers to take care of him for the rest of his life and he 's 93 ? This young man that he meets is no relation to him it 's just really hard foe me to believe that a young man running a traveling circus would take this all on . ",2
"From the other reviews i was expecting to have my socks knocked off as I had in The Glass Castle by Jeannette Walls and Replay by Ken Grimwood but instead I found that I was pleasantly entertained . No more . No less . The most impressive parts of this book were Sara 's portrayal of the elderly . I imagine that life for the elderly is pretty much as she portrays it which I found enlightening and interesting . These parts ended up being my favorite ! The rest of the book is colorful imaginative and worthwhile . ",3
"This book is easy to get into and once you 're there you wo n't want put the book down . The author 's use of imagery paints the scenes so well with a believable but unusual assortment of characters . It entertains and engrosses you with turns and twists in the story line . I loved it ! ",4
"A story that reminds you that it is never to late to have an adventure.Do n't pick it up . unitl you are prepared to read it from cover to cover becasue once you start you wount want to put it down.I am eargerly awaiting the film version . ",4
"Very well written and and very grabbing . There were however 2 raunchy parts that were a little graphic especially since they did n't really effect the whole story much . These moments felt as if they were elaborated on specifically in to draw in a larger audience via random moments of smut . For me it cheapened an otherwise 5 star book . Really now that was an image of a cartoon character that I did not want inside my head ! LIke I said . Beautifully writtenbut I would have preferred if the aforementioned parts were briefly stated so you knew they happened and then moved on like the rape scenes in Khaled Hosseini 's book Kite runner or even the marital scenes in 1000 splendid suns . ",3
"I am one of the ones that really liked this book . I honestly chose this book because I knew the movie was coming out and wanted to read it first . I enjoyed the book better than the movie . There was much more detail . You could see the characters struggles and how they got there . I would recommend this book . It is a really fast read though . ",3
"started off greatdid n't care for it as it went on . The animal abuse really bothered me and I really did n't like the way it endedsorry . ",2
"The author alternates the time period and venue between chapters . It 's a fascinating story and even more amazing considering the author is a woman and the protagonist is a 90yearold man . ",4
"When I picked up this book I was not sure what to expect . The first few pages hooked me and it was all I could do not to put the book down til the very last page . I spent a season with the blue unit of Ringling Brothers back in the 80s and even though the life has changed a great deal from the circus trains during the depression the lifesytle is quite similiar . The different cliques the constant travel schedule and life on the road . I remember many a nights sitting with other joeys and talking with the oldtimers who told similiar tales as in Water for Elephants . My thanks to Sara for bringing back some great memories of my own circus career and putting a great story to such a facinating and unknown part of history for many people . I do wish she had gone a little deeper into some of the other acts and aspects of circus life but maybe there is another novel about life on the Ringling circuit . Loved the ending so appropriate . Have recommended this book to all my friends and if you are looking for a thriling dramatic read this book is for you . Does not matter if you are not into circus life this is so much more . It is about living learning trying to be the best you can be and never giving up . 5 stars would give it more but 5 is all that Amazon allows . Those who give this book 1 and 2 stars have no idea what they are talking about have you read the book ? ",4
"I 'm usually drawn to books written about the depression era as I have heard so much about it from my parents . This book is not only that but a great insight to the circus life during that time . I had a hard time putting this book down in the evenings after a day at work and it was good timing that my spouse was out of town for the week . Very well written a great story and a page turner . I 'll be buying copies for future gifts . ",4
"This is definately one of the best books I read all year . I fell in love with the characters and the story . I could n't put it down . ",4
"Enjoyed the unique look at circus life in that time . Also the author had a very good understanding of not only the process of aging but how a person experiencing it thinks and feels ! The ending was surprising and pleasant but not really realistic . ",3
"Loved this book . It portrays the life of survival of humans and animals alike . It has always amazed me how elephants put up with us ignorant humans and our slow mentality in catching on as to how to treat them according to their abilities . The fact that elephants have n't done away with all evil handlers is a testament to the amazing personality patience and attitude of their creation . The circus realm has a lot of shame guilt and blame placed at its feet . Even though this is a fictional story the real stories of circus elephants is much worse and a hard read . I 'm looking forward to another place in time where all will live in peace with all living things as this great earth was intended . ",4
"This book kept me up past midnight this morning it was the selection for our book discussion group this afternoon . Each person in our group rated it a 5 which generally means the book was so good we could n't put it down.I qualified my vote by saying I would give it a 5 for the author 's work in researching her material and in linking Jacob 's 90 or 93year old self to his younger self along with her use of dreams andor daydreams.The book was a pageturner as another member of our group had told me . It arrived from amazon.com on Tuesday after I finally decided to pay full price for it since I was not finding a really good buy for a used copy elsewhere online.I am generally a slow reader wanting to picture each event in my mind before I continue . However the book went pretty fast since it has a lot of dialog.One thing our book discussion group questioned . How could Jacob be so sure that Mr. McGuinty could not have carried water for the elephants ? Could n't he have been one of a number of boys who carried buckets of water to the elephants ? The author did not explain this.We saw some similarities to the Jacob in the Bible but perhaps we missed some which the author included . My Bible tells me that the name Jacob means deceiver so in what way were we deceived by him ? Were the last two chapters factual or were they daydreams which came to Jacob as he sat in his wheelchair ? ",4
"Water for Elephants is one of my alltime favorite books . I read it in one sitting on a plane and then on an airport bus . I was captivated the whole time . I enjoyed it so much that I later checked out the audio version from the library and enjoyed it just as much if not more . Definitely worth a read for anyone who likes elephants circuses veterinarians period fiction Depression Era or just good books in general . ",4
"This is a very interesting and welltold story which kept my attention all the way through . I only gave it four stars because even though I liked the book a lot I probably would n't recommend it to others because there were several sexual situations that were somewhat graphic . ",3
"I 'm so glad I finally got around to reading this book . I purchased it a while ago thinking it was going to be the next read in my book club . That did n't happen and I actually forgot I had it on my Kindle.Truth be told I waffled between 4 and 5 stars . Here 's whySpoilersAlthough flashing back between old Jacob and young Jacob ended up necessary for the reader to get the whole story it was a bit annoying to me at first . Well really for most of the book . It was n't that I did n't enjoy the old Jacob parts they were very well written . The young Jacob parts were so well written the change from one perspective to the other often threw me out of the story . I would be reading along really into the story . Bam ! Now we 're back in the nursing home . It really distracted me . I even noted about the third time this happened that there better be a reason for the back and forth or I would look at it as a crutch the author felt she had to use . I still do n't feel it was totally necessary to have old Jacob but it was nice to have the closure that point of view was able to give us.Regardless I will be recommending this book to all the readers I know . Not so much for the romance to me that was a side story but for the relationships Jacob had with the rest of the characters . ",4
"Loved this book . A true to life story and unique because it is about a man 's life in his words . Easily read and comfortable transition between past and present . Great unexpected ending . ",4
"There might be a good story here but personally the excessive profanity and sexual situations were offputting . I returned the book unfinished . ",0
"Though I am an avid reader and read hundreds of books a year this is the first time I have felt the need to review a fiction book for Amazon . There are very few books that I read that I will always remember or possibly even read again but this is one of them . I read and enjoyed Gruen 's other two books Riding Lessons and Flying Changes but was overwhelmed by Water for Elephants . I liked the fact that the past is being recalled by a 90 possibly 93 year old man you do n't find many books that have an elderly protaganist and it was refreshing . I enjoyed the many animals in the story Rosie and Bobo especially . I enjoyed learning about the traveling circuses and felt that Gruen really did do a wonderful job researching this book I think the old circus photos added a nice touch too . The story fit together seamlessly and I was disappointed when it ended I would have liked to read about the married years in more depth . The ending surprised and delighted me . This was a great feel good book . ",4
"I was captivated by this book . The bits of historical data mixed with fiction made the story seem more authentic.The tale is told by a 93yearold man in a nursing home . His recollections lend to the authenticity of this story . At first it seemed like this had been a real relative of the author . When I realized that it was not I was amazed with the author 's creativity . ",4
"The book is a good book but in no way great . The descriptions of the time period and the circus was great but the story was predictable to excess . The characters were contrived and stereotypical . I did enjoy parts of the story but it is not a great novel it is merely an entertaining read . ",2
"Set in the Great Depression this is the story of the spectacle of The Big Top . It will put both its hands around the heart and touch that heart in just about every conceivable way a heart can be affected.It has a motley cast of characters curiosities with two and four legs animal lovers and haters humanitarians and saddists an absolutely unforgettable Elephant Capital E named Rosie plus the irascible irreverent bellicose and lovable narrator named Jacob.The writing is firstclass the crafting is painstaking the characters are compelling the pathos laughter joy and soul is addicting . Such an emptiness after finishing this wonderful work . Highly highly recommended especially for animal lovers ! ! And for this Chicago person it was an added delight to know the locations in Chicago that added to this story.Word to the wise this work touches on some of the dark side of the circus some but not all so go inside with the eyes wide open . As an animal lover this side is the one that grinds my bones to powder . And yet only a small bit of the dark was given more could have been added but was not.The post script is just a personal observation and strong affirmation ~ that henceforth there will be no more Big Tops Rodeos Dog Fights Animal Races Bull Fights or any other cruelties that will be offered as entertainment for humanity . Where is the humanity in any one of those events ? ? ? ",4
"This book was absolutely wonderful ! Sara Gruen is an amazing writer and the story is wonderful . I could hardly put it down once I started and I would recommend it to anyone looking for a great read . ",4
"It 's the early 1920s . Jacob Jankowski is about to finish up his veterinary degree at Cornell University when he learns that his parents have been killed in a car crash . Stunned by this awful and sudden turn of events Jacob completely blanks while taking his final exams . He walks out and wanders out of town in a complete daze eventually jumping a train . It turns out he has jumped the circus train for the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth.Jacob pretty much instantly falls for Marlena one of the star performers . The only problem is that she is already married to August the animal manager who is as we come to find out a paranoid schizophrenic with erratic behavior problems . The story focuses on these three characters as the circus train makes its way around the country performing in various cities . Along the way the circus acquires an elephant Jacob befriends his reluctant roommate and tries to save an ailing friend from being tossed from the circus.This is a really interesting and moving book . It 's really fascinating to read about daily circus life and how things worked . And it 's a touching story about a smart elephant a compassionate vet and a forbidden love . I do wish there had been some more charater development for Rosie the elephant though . Also the story is told in retrospect from a presentday Jacob who is now in his 90s . Every few chapters the story skips back to present day and the nursing homebound narrator . I felt the story would have worked a lot better if it had just stuck to the circus part of the story . The present day interjections were distracting . Other than that this was an excellent book . Highly recommended . ",4
"I listened to the audiobook version of this book great production ! but was one of those who was somewhat disappointed . I had read the glowing reviews and thought I 'd give it a try . I listened to it all and thought the characters were wonderful but the plot was so slow . I felt like there were so many opportunities that the author had with the themes time period etc.that were not used . I give it three stars but there are so many other good books out there worth the 11 hours of time . ",2
"Can a stint of a few months in a circus change a boy 's life forever ? Yawn . The novel is peopled with cutouts a diligent country boy orphaned the day before his final exams an ethereally beautiful horsetamer with a secret problem a loutish husband perverted dwarves whores with golden hearts etc . Retold from a retirement home the novel seems prepped for cinematic treatment and does n't linger in literature . It hurtles towards a preordained resolution the match made in heaven in the book and a movie contract for the author . Boo . ",1
"Fantastic read . I flew straight through it in just a few intense sessions eyes locked to the page over an hour at a time . Couple of quick book comparisons immediately come to mind . First I 'm reminded of the great line near the beginning of Life of Pi that informs the reader that they are about to hear a story that will make them believe in God . I wrapped myself around that line and read in hopes of the book keeping that promise . It 's a bold promise so I reward the book for its effort but I 'm not sure it lead to any true converts . We get a similar sentiment in the beginning of Water for Elephants . Jacob pulls us in by insinuating that he 's about to tell us a secret he 's kept for over seventy years . Again I found myself lured into the book 's Big Top to find that secret . And much like an oldworld carnival I found my main attraction and enjoyed all of the book 's turns and sideshows.Another book comparison that comes to mind is with Iron Weed a Pulitzer Prize winner in the eighties . Like Iron Weed this book does really an excellent job of submersing you in the feel and sense of being flat broke and in dire straights trying to negotiate survival during the Great Depression . During a long stretch inside the world the book creates I could literally feel the dust and dirt being kicked up by the roustabouts and workers as the tents went up . Gruen took my into those crammed dirty box cars and murky latenight binges . I was there.One more favorite from the book . The author somehow manages to make the internal world of a ninety or ninetythree year old man trapped and forgotten in a nursing home just about as interesting as the glitz and glamor of the show and the drama it unfolds . That 's no easy feat but she does it well . I was left thinking about aging long after I had let go of the circus . Jacob 's thoughts about how senility sort of creeps in and his explanations of his two worlds and no longer being sure where one ends and the other begins stayed with me . An excellent excellent book.Chris BowenAuthor ofOur Kids Building Relationships in the Classroom ",4
"Not everyone loves this book but I did ! It was my first novel read on my new Kindle Paper White ! ",4
"I finished this book a few weeks ago and I still am thinking about it . The characters are all unique and the animals as well . Life was hard in those times people had to survive . ",4
"This novel was full of interesting characters and captured the difficult economic situation that many were placed in by circumstances over which they had little control . The reality of the desperation and the lack of value for human life bought the story of circus life during these harsh times . ",3
"Water for Elephants has its good moments a particular incident late in the book during which the protagonist is standing over a sleeping but dangerous man with knife in hand trying to decide what to do next is hauntingly poignant but all told I 'm glad that I read this book through the Kindle leasing program rather than buying it.There are several themes in Water for Elephants including the lack of dignity often associated with the treatment of the elderly and the evil effects of greed . However the backbone of the story seems to be a sort of iconoclasm . The Sterling images of the circus often inculcated in us during childhood are challenged by images of violence animal cruelty and graphic sexuality . However the fact that this book unearths the dark side of the early twentieth century circus speaks less to its quality than to the fact that our society all too often allows commercialism and popular mythology to shape our images of the past . Simply challenging false notions held by society contributes very little to the value of a story like this one . In the end the tone of the book takes on moods which can change violently from the darkly cynical to the unrealistically optimistic the ending of the book feels impossible illegal and unsafe . Sentimentality rather than a meaningful exploration of human emotion dominates the scenes of the assisted living facility although as noted above the fact that those scenes also bring to light the continuing need for respect to the elderly does serve to redeem them to a decent extent.The story is on some level a forbidden romance and on this level it has many failings . The rapidity with which Marlena falls for Jacob seems more indicative of a woman torn by the violent nature of her relationship than a woman in anything approaching love . The way in which August is killed seems to do nothing but Grant a legitimacy to the relationship via Pacidermis ex Machina and to tie up loose ends.All in all this is n't an awful book but it seems to be the type of story commonly found in book discussion groups for all of two months before being rapidly forgotten . There is no real draw beyond a handful of tense and wellwritten moments in the last quarter of the story.For the Kindle edition images work surprisingly well and I have no real complaints about formatting . ",1
"Sara Gruen 's Water for Elephants will probably top the list for the books I read in 2010 3 months left so come on authors wow me ! . It is evident that Gruen painstakingly researched life in the 1930 's circuis and her hard work paid off with a nice slice of Americana . The book 's plot kept me turning pages late into the night.Others have complained about the book 's vulgarity and I 'll admit that several scenes were a bit too vulgar for my taste but the subject is the depressionera circus not nursery school . While not necessarily pleasant it was probably befitting the subject matter.The greatest praise I 'll give Gruen was in her ending . The fictionliterature authors of the last decade seem to be of the notion that a depressing ending makes for good literature . I would like to remind these authors that I read fiction as an escape from reality not as a desire to have more of it . To Gruen 's credit she reached for the best ending possible and she nailed it ! I hope the rest of her books are as good as this one ! ",3
"I loved this book there are a few naysayers in the sea of positive reviews and there is a reason for this . It is an excellent book of course it is not air tight but it is a fun read and interesting . It reminded me in some way of the White City book in that it took history in this case of the circus in a certain time period in history and wove a story around this history . It took me a little less then two days to read it and well worth the story ! ooking for a fun fast read with a great story line buy and enjoy this book ! ",4
"I did not like the many sexual content yet I do realize in some way to make this entirely a realistic book one has to have some of that . I particularly did not care for circus performance of the LADY But what I did like was the beginning of the story of the nursing home . I truly felt sorry for the H and It truly made me want to visit the elderly . ",3
"Love this book ! The story was so interesting and kept you wanting more ! I learned about circus life all while enjoying a great story . ",4
"Not that I wanted to know anything about the circus ever let alone the circus during the 30s but there you have it . I read this for a book club I 'd never have chosen it for myself and was the only person to not enjoy the book . While I skimmed much of the circus part I found myself enjoying the hereandnow part with Jacob in the nursing home.He was the type of character I enjoy with his ornery comments and the loss he endured . Not necessarily with the death of his beloved wife but with the forgetfulness of his surviving family his children and grandchildren . It was almost as if he was an afterthought once he was in the Home out of sight out of mind . That was heartbreaking and I could see why he chose the end he did to run away and spend the last bit of his life doing something he could where people needed him and would n't forget him.The young Jacob 's life eh . He was weak not very bright and I question how he managed to get into an Ivy League school . But then they do n't test you on common sense . There was no real consequence for his actions in the circus and he managed drunk death defying feats on a moving train notwithstanding to consistently escape his actions.I admit to not guessing the entire ending though it was obvious who his wife was since her introduction . The writing was full of flowery clich & eacutes and there were several places I wish Ms. Gruen would 've gone over again to plug up some holes and take out excessive details but overall it did work . I just was n't interested in it . ",2
"I enjoyed the story and it definitely kept my interest . I kept wanting to see what would happened next so I finished it in just a couple days . ",4
"What a great story ! Now I 'm sure we 'll go see the movie . The author did an excellent job with the plot and her research for details was awesome . Very good portrayal of the time period . Loved the ending I work in a nursing home and could really feel for the main character do n't want to spoil it for anyone but it was the perfect way to finish ! I 've read it twice and also listened to the audio ! ",4
"I thoroughly enjoyed this book . It was a really good story but also sad . The end was a little far fetched but worth your time . ",3
"I loved how this story switched between the past and the present . I have n't read a book like that in awhile so I was really happy for something differenta little break from the norm . I could n't put this book down and now heard it is being made into a movie . Woo hoo ! ",4
"This book surprised me by how moving and beautiful it is contrasted by the dark and ugly of circus life.I really was n't sure I would like it but again my book club chose to read it . A character driven story that gives insight into a lifestyle most never think about . ",4
"Fell in love with the characters ! Although I did n't research the story it felt very real & could possibly be historically correct about circus ' . This was a page turner real almost in one sitting . Now I need to see the movie ! ",4
"This is a great book and is so much more enjoyable than the movie . The writing style is in depth and concise a great read ! ",4
"Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen is a well written depressionera book that most readers ages 1595 could read and enjoy even if you think this is n't the typical type of book you would read.This book tells two stories simultaneously as a 93 yr. old crumudgeon embittered by his surroundings in a retirement home recollects his life as he travelled with a secondrate circus while falling in love with a married woman.I probably would have never read this book had it not been for a family book club Is n't that why you have them however I 'm sure glad I did I really did enjoy this read and found the pages turned much quicker than I anticipated.I always am interested to see how an author can write in the pointofview pf the opposite sex and I thought it was executed wonderfully . Also the terminology that was used was very specific to the time and to how the circusfolk spoke at the time . One could tell Gruen definately did her homework.If there is any drawback it would be the end to one of the stories I 'm not going to say which one or how it ends do n't worry . I thought it ended kind of sappy and a little unbeleivable for a story that seems very factual.Bottom line four stars . I am very stingy with my stars so please read and enjoy . ",3
"I listened to the audio CD which is narrated by one voice for the older Jacob and one for the younger Jacob . The reading is superb and the story is unusual but terrific . I listened to it twice before I donated it to the local senior commmunity where they had chosen it for their monthly book club . I highly recommend it particularly for an experience 'off the beaten path . ' ",4
"I read a lot of books and save my reviews for the ones that I really love this story was wonderful . I literally read it from start to finish in one sitting . Jacob 's story is amazing . A must read . Really do n't know what more to say except that you should read this book . ",4
"While I am not a circus fan this book takes the reader back to a tragic time in the late 20 's and early 30 's to witness the life of the people living the life of the train circus exsistence . I admire the author 's work to provide the research to make this story not only horrifying at times but also has an interest in this era of our history . There were many times I felt that it was difficult to put it down definitely worth reading ",4
"The book came super fast packaged perfectly and in perfect condition . Everything I 'd expeced it to be . Could hardly believe the speed in which I received it . ",4
"I never write reviews but for this book I felt the need to ! The book was just plain wonderful ! I fell in love with Jacob both old and young ! I got it for my Kindle but i am going to have to by the DTB as well ! love this book ! ! ! ! ! There is no way to really sum this book up other then wonderful ! ",4
"A quick read with wonderful detail . The characters really come to life on the pages of this book . I really enjoyed the way the story moves back and forth between young and old Jacob . ",4
"I really enjoyed reading this book . I saw the movie first then decided to read it . It 's pretty different from the movie but I like that . It 's story was great really made you love Jacob . Must read ! ",4
"I almost bought this book 2 years ago while on vacation . Thought I had too many books in my arms so I put it down ! Wow what a mistake ! I just read it on my kindle and LOVED it . I fell in love with Jacob with the first line . Wonderful book now I have to check into some more of Sara Gruen 's books ! ",4
"This book is well done . Written in the style of a life review it is a look back on the life of a circus and the characters that made it work . I was suprised at how well I enjoyed it and the development of the characters . The reality of the life style that the carnies lived and the social prejudcies involved . This is a worth your time . ",4
"I do n't know why I picked up this book to read but I 'm glad I did ! All summer I 've become bored with other books I 've attempted to read but abandoned half way through.Water for Elephants was different . Once I started reading I could n't put the book down . The author did a great job developing the characters and the story . I did n't know much about circus life and the story gives the reader a good glimpse of what it was like . Because I 'm an animal lover I liked how the main character looked out for well being of the circus animals.I recommend this book . ",4
"The Author weaves an exciting and enduring tale that brings to life an American era . The juxtaposition of the glamorous and gritty circus set in the Depression mirrors the wonderful and grim love story . Each sentence is thoughtfully written pulling the reader in . Loved it . ",4
"So far there are 866 reviews for this book so there 's nothing I can say that 's different from anyone else . It got to be so absorbing by the middle of the book with a VERY satisfying ending . I could n't resist adding another review to thank Sara Gruen for this wonderful story . I just finished it a minute agoI ignored my kids all night while caught up in this story . Now my kids can have me back ! Please read and enjoy this book . Thank you . ",4
"This is one of the best books that I have ever read . I am not a book enthusiast however this one has grabbed me from the first page and I have had a hard time putting it down . What a dramatic story that is so wonderfully written.If you are wondering if you should get this book or not do it ! You will not be disappointed ! ! ! ",4
"This was a book club assignment I had not wanted to read this book because I had heard that there was some animal cruelty but as a member I try to appreciate other peoples book choices as they do mine.The cruelty was a little hard to read especially the beatings of Rosie but I also found myself cringing at the unneccessary sex scenes that were over the top boredom at the constant threat of tossing people of the train and disbelief at the stampede of the menagerie.I did like the elderly Jacob and his life at the nursing home I think it shows how elderly people are often put on the shelf when they become a bother in lifeso sad . Then this was spoilt by the idea that he ran away with the circus was able to sell tickets even if he could not button his shirt and all with the acceptance of the current circus owner.I am sure the circus of that era was not a pleasant place but I think the characters could have been much better developed and the story a little less unbelievable . ",1
"An excellent read . Even though it did n't sound like something I would read it kept me reading . I could n't put it down . ",4
"Im usually skepical when it comes to reading a book that has become a movie . I end up either loving the movie and not liking the book or loving the book and not liking the movie . THIS book was stunning in detail and takes the reader into the 'Big Top ' in such detail that you can almost smell the peanuts ! It contains violence but it is told with such skill that the reader understands just how brutal humans can be .but the main character is the hero and does make a difference . As for the romanceits innocent and well written . There is something for all in this story and I see now why it was made into a movie . I have not seen it yet but I can only imagine ! ",4
"I enjoyed reading about the history of the circus and the anecdotes shared by Sara Gruen . It takes you back to an age of innocence in your life where the Circus was pretty close to the best thing that ever happened to you . The elephants and the brave ladies that rode on them . The clowns and the ittle people . I enjoyed recreating those memories while reading this delightful and sweet account of two circus runaways who fall in love . Their story was predictable in so many ways . The old Jacob part was just sad and it left a sour feeling . However I did enjoy reading about the circus people and their lives . The parades and the drama behind the curtain . The roustabouts working so hard and sleeping in crowded spacesyet what an adventure ! to travel around the country from town to town brining smiles to millions and enjoying the camradie of the circus ! I loved that part . ",3
"This novel is a wonderful mix of fantasy and reality pathos and joy ! With the sad tale of Jacob unfolding in the first chapter the reader is quickly engaged in the story . The interchapters weave the tale from the past into the present and make the reader empathize with Jacob and become endeared to the Circus and its workers.I read chapter 5 to my high school senior English class to give them insight into the life of an old man and his perspective on reminiscence and life . They loved it ! They even gained new perspective on the elderly that they work with at their community service sites.What a good book ! I recommend it to all ages . It is fun and full of humanity . ",4
"This book was made into a good movie a couple of years ago . I always recommend that you read the book before seeing the film and again this is the case . This is an intricate dramatic love story with twists that hold your attention . An excellent read . ",4
"Who would ever guess that a story about a circus would be so fantastic ? The author Sara Gruen knew that 's who . Well she was right . Jacob is lost after the death of his parents . When he is just a final exam away from his veterinary license he stumbles upon a traveling circus train and inadvertently joins . Through Jacob we get a glimpse behind the scenes of the the characters relationships struggles and class warfare of circus folk . Intertwined in this interesting story of the circus is a love story . I noticed that one of the other reviewers found the love story a bit trite but I disagree . I found the love story completely believable and the use of flashback extremely effective . Most importantly I must tell you I cried . I RARELY cry while reading . You are are going to dig this book ! ",4
"Passion hatred love and murder Water for Elephants the novel by Sara Gruen has it all . It 's rare that I read a novel and become so engulfed with the story but from the first page I was hooked . The way in which Gruen has the protagonist of the story Jacob Jankowski switch back and forth between his 22yearold self and present day 90 or 93 yearold self is both creative and effective in capturing her readers . Every single scene has intensity and vibrancy . The juxtaposition of the elderly Jankowski and the young circus worker Jankowski posed a humorous yet almost sad setting for the story . Readers would be crazy not to fall in love with his character.Though fiction the novel represents the lives of circus workers back in the 1920 's and 1930 's and gives insight to the gruesome conditions the men had to live in and the constant struggles that they faced everyday . Each chapter begins with a photograph derived from circuses back from the time Jankowski would have worked . The photos truly show the lives that these men led and let readers see not only imagine how things were . Though the historical value of the novel was fascinating the forbidden but passionate relationship between Marlena and Jacob was the most captivating portion . The constant secrecy from August and the fear of being revealed created an incredible emotional reaction for me.The corruption of the novel and the intensity of the characters made this novel a hard one to dislike . In my opinion it has to be one of the best books written in the past few years . If there were one book I had to recommend to anyone it would definitely have to be Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen . ",4
"To find this book that captured the time and feel of my grandparents and my parents time of life . I liked this book . To me it is a Toby Tyler for adults . An escape to the circus . It is well written and engaging . I was expecting a sappy love story and this is simply a good story . ",3
"a friend lent this book to me and i really enjoyed it a lot . the writing is nice and clear and switches between current day where jacob is in a nursing home and back then in the 1930s when he works for a circus . most of the story happens at the circus and tells about what jacob did for an elephant who was being abused by the circus boss . it was a fantastic read im really glad i read it ! highly recommended . ",4
"This book glued me to the edge of my seat and held me there by my heartstrings . Very poignant account of a young man who came into his own not once but twicea mustread ! ",4
"I just finished listening to this audio book and I have to say it was truly wonderful . I felt the circus come alive great imagery and historic detail . You could picture the circus ` s shows with great detail . I listened to this while commuting and found myself really enjoying my drive to and from work traffic and all . The only negative was the sex . My tween daughter really wanted to read this book because of the movie trailer but I had to say no right away after just the first chapter or so . It really did n't add that much to the story and was n't needed . ",4
"I loved this book not only was it extremely entertainingit was so informative . I learned so much . The circus never interested me but since the book had such great reviews I decided to try it out . I 'm glad I did . I highly recommend this book . It is dark and creepy at some points depressing but there is just something about it you will fall in love with Rosie . ",4
"The book kept me interested and moved along very well . The beginning was OK but the end was the best part . I have not seen the movie . ",3
"I absolutely loved this book . It was so well written and I was easily able to connect to the characters . I was gripping my seat the whole time I was reading this . It was phenomenal . ",4
"It 's all in the details and the people who become real . I liked how the author used past and present to age Jacob . It added depth to a story which was already full of twists and turns . ",3
"Wellwritten colorful characters fun read . The authorised a great job of painting a vivid picture and making me feel like I was right there with the circus crew . ",4
"This book is a MUST read.The other reviews are all true and helpful . from the very first line this story carries you away . The emotion invoked was strong . There is n't any way to describe this book . It moved me to anger tears horror vindication . In the end I had a different outlook on entertainment involving animals and on the human being aging . ",4
"Water for Elephants was mesmerizing . Form beginning to end the characters were compelling and the research meticulous . I could n't put the book down . ",4
"As I neared the end of this book I was so sad . It was just such a wonderful rich charming story that I wanted it to continue forever ! I was completely enchanted by Gruen 's story and way with words . From page 1 of the prologue she had captured my full attention with vivid imagery and intriguing characters . When you read great historical fiction like this it 's hard not to get sucked into the world and time of the characters . Water for Elephants does this to perfectionmy mind was transported back to Depressionera America as I traveled on a traincircus mingling with performers and workingmen alike . It was a fun and fantastical adventure.Gruen 's story gritty at times and uplifting at others is compelling to say the leastI never wanted to set this book down ! I thought the author 's technique of transporting the reader back and forth between Jacob 's time with the Benzini Brothers and his later years spent at the nursing home was done magnificently . And it was the his nursing home days that really made Jacob such a welldeveloped and likeable main character.I wholeheartedly recommend this book to anyone who loves a good story ! You will not be disappointed . ",4
"Excellently written and completely absorbing.It 's one of those rare books that has no part you will want to skim over or read through.The characters and the story linger in your mind long after you finish reading the book.The book itself is so good that it is easier to read than the best reviews here . ",4
"I did n't realize this book had been out for so long when I ordered it from Amazon . Ca n't believe I had n't heard of it before because it was a fantastic book I should have picked up sooner . I think a movie is being made about the book but I am glad I read the book first . It 's a quick read for a lazy Sunday afternoon . Definitely entertaining . After I finished it I felt like I was still transported back to the 1930 's circus and it took several hours to stop thinking about it . Worth reading for sure . ",4
"Someone gave me my first copy of this . It sat around my house for weeks before I finally picked it up and could n't put it down . Since then I have purchased copies for everyone I know . Not a huge fan of the movie but I have read this book several times which I rarely do unless the book is really special . This one is a keeper . BUY IT . You 'll want an elephant of your own ",4
"Jacob Jankowski is ninety years old or maybe he 's ninetythree he does n't remember . However he does remember a very interesting part of his life . It comes about one day when the news that a circus is in town and one of Jacob 's fellow nursing home inmates brags about having worked at a circus and giving water to the elephants . Jacob knows the old man is full of it . After all Jacob once worked at a circus . Rewind seventysomething years to the 1930s amid the Great Depression . Jacob is twentythree just weeks away from getting his degree in Cornwall University to become a certified veterinarian . Then he receives the news that his parents died in a terrible accident . He also discovers that they had no money they had invested every last penny on Jacob 's Ivy League education . Distraught Jacob runs away . By accident he ends up on a train destination unknown . He discovers that the train is actually one that carries a traveling circus . One thing leads to another and he ends up working as a sort of unofficial caretaker for the animals . He meets August and his wife Marlena . Jacob learns many secrets to life as a circus performer and worker meets lots of interesting people and encounters some very unsavory things . August for instance is a very unstable unpredictable person . He is abusive to the animals and insufferable one moment and completely charming and obliging the next . The way he treats the animals especially Rosie the new performing elephant makes Jacob sick but he ca n't do anything about it . The Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth has its awful moments but things get worse for Jacob when he falls in love with the beautiful MarlenaI like the way Water for Elephants changes from Jacob 's presentday narrative as a cynical old man with early signs of dementia to his days as a nave young man and his struggles with wanting to fit into the Benzini Brothers and wanting to lose his virginity . The way his voice and narrative change is clear and precise and you get drawn into this unique and at times quirky novel . The backdrop of the Depression is wonderful and believable . The secondary characters are compelling especially Walter August Uncle Al and Marlena . August is a horrible person and the scenes centered on his abuse toward Rosie the elephant are indeed sickening . It 's a good thing Gruen spares us from too much information in terms of the actual abuse . Rosie sounds adorable and I loved it when she was in the scenes . I very much enjoyed Water for Elephants . It 's very moving and entertaining . No wonder it became a # 1 New York Times bestseller ! Even though the NYT list has never influenced my reading especially since the stuff that makes the top list is mostly trash it 's nice to see that readers get it right every once in a while . Sara Gruen is a great author . I look forward to reading her future works . ",3
"A friend recommended this book to me and I very much enjoyed it I found this book to be very entertaining . At first I thought I have no interest learning abot a circus but this book had a great story line . It held my attention and I could n't put it down . I found the story to be descrptive enough to play like a movie as I read it and no I 've not even seen the movie . I 'm looking forward to reading other books by this author ",4
"Changes how you look at things . Great read it 's a classic . I loved reading this book . It 's still good in 2013 . ",4
"This book had me hooked from the first chapter . It 's a great saga of the circus life . It was an easy read and had a story line that kept me entertained . ",3
"This was a book that was hard to put down and I have recommended it to all my reader friends . I loved the way it jumped between when he was a young man and now an older man . It also seems so realistic about how a person might feel when they are so elderly . I really enjoyed it and I never will think of the circus the same way . ",4
"I do n't know why this book is on the best seller lists . While the story is interesting the writing is too onedimensional . The character development is elementary at best . In my view this book seems to have been written by a child . It is so simple it lacks depth . What 's up with the reading public ? ",1
"My book club chose this book in the spring . I decided not to read it at that time despite the wonderful reviews . Last week I picked it up to read while we were lounging at the cabin . Wow ! What took me so long ? This is one of the finest stories I 've read in a long time . It grabbed me in the beginning and pulled me through to the end . It had a bit of everythinghumor adventure romance heartbreak.Water for Elephants is the story of a young man who accidentally joins a circus train in 1931 . Along with him we meet some wonderful charactersboth human and animal.Spoiler AlertI enjoy a story with a happy yet satisfying ending . This book did not disappoint . ",4
"I could almost see Tom Hanks playing the lead character in the movie even though I have not seen it.Would recommend this to anyone . ",4
"The difficulty of writing a book that is a good read is that it must sweep you up and make you forget the world around you . You must become so invested in the daily life and fate of the characters that you become more interested in what is happening on the page than what is going on in your life . At its sporadic best this novel is a good read . The author has chosen an interesting world and time to write about and obviously done her homework . But homework is not enough . The great nagging problems however are she is neither a good nor original writer . Consequently the characters she has created are wooden and every third sentence out of their mouths is either predictable or a howling cliche . The characters themselves are comprised of one cliche after the other the good hearted innocent hero the evil boss the plucky sidekick a dwarf no lessthe bewitching damsel in distress the schizo villain who is mean to animals You 've seen them all too many times before in books movies even cartoons . So when they meet their fates you shrug because you guessed what would happen to each of them fifty pagesor more before . The book 's huge success is similar to the success of a McDonald 's hamburger you know what you 're going to get as you walk into the place . ",1
"just when I thought I knew what was coming the story took another clever twist . this was definitely a pageturner of the highest magnitude . do n't miss it ! ",4
"It was an interesting story written well . I have a new respect for elephants and the opposite for cruel handlers . ",3
"This is a great story about love and the passage of time . I normally do not read fiction but took a chance on this book and I 'm so glad I did . The straight forward story telling keeps you in the moment . I thought about this tale long after I had finished reading it . I would recommend it to anyone . ",4
"I read this book about a year ago . I was a little unsure of the subject matter however the book pulled me in . I got very interested in the various characters I found that it was one of my favorite books I read last year . ",4
"I feel a little weird writing a critical review about this book . It was strongly recommended to me by several people who said it was a great story so I was expecting something that would truly captivate me and pull me in . For me it simply fell short.I think that a tremendous amount of time and effort went into the research involved for this book and that should not go unnoticed . If you 're looking for a book that clearly depicts the Great Depression andor circus life during that time period by all means you should pick up the book . I do not know a tremendous amount about that time period to tell you if it was fully accurate but I feel that it did give me a pretty good picture of what circus life would be like in that era . The photographs installed at the beginning of each chapter also did a great job connecting the story with the reality of traveling circuses of the time . The language probably could have corresponded a bit more but in terms of the spirit and energy of the book versus the time period in which it takes place I think it was pretty spot on.However I really had trouble connecting with the characters . They simply did not seem like wellrounded real people to me . I understand that the characters should be eccentric considering they are individuals traveling with a circus but not to the point where they should seem artificial . Their emotional reactions to various tumultuous situations seemed unrealistic based on having experienced similar situations in my life . The psychological repercussions would have been huge for a lot of the major conflicts that occur in the book especially during the time of the Great Depression but I did not feel the degree of inner struggle within the characters was well represented throughout the story . The characters would get sad or angry but they seemed to sedate their feelings pretty darn quick.The depiction of the main character in his old age however seemed more realistic to me . I thought the scenes in the nursing home were very well done and true to life . The characters in these parts also seemed more believable to me . However I was pretty disappointed in the ending . It seemed contrived . I will not get into it too deeply however so as not to spoil the story.I genuinely feel that Sara Gruen is a great author and did a good job with the book I just feel that the character development was lacking . In terms of painting a picture of the environment though she did a fantastic job and it 's a book worth reading if only for the descriptive element of it . Plus tons of people simply LOVE the book it just was n't for me in the end . ",2
"This was a well written book . Intriguing and kept me going until the book was all read . I was hoping there would be a sequel but none so far . ",4
"At first glance one might be inclined to think this circus novel an appropriate read for an adolescent audience . However parents may wish to read it first as the novel contains overt sexuality and animal cruelty.That being said both of the storylines are gripping . The younger character experiences life in the circus as both cruel and rewarding . The older character finds aging to be the same . ",3
"Sara Gruen 's engaging novel Water for Elephants is a well researched and cleverly formatted reminiscence of one Jacob Jankowski a 93 or 90 year old he ca n't remember which assisted living inhabitant . Jankowski still in possesion of his faculties had worked in circuses for many years and this novel is a flashback to his life at that time . Gruen spins her story alternating chapters of Jankowski 's past and present.Jankowski had been an enthusiastic veterinary student at prestigious Cornell university . Days before sitting for his final exams he shockingly learns that his parents had been killed in an tragic auto accident . To his dismay he stunningly learns that due to the economic downturn of the Great Depression his father 's veterinary business and whole estate is essentially worthless . His parents mortgaged everything to pay for his education.Distraught and penniless Jankowski aimlessly wanders from the Cornell campus eventually hitching a ride hobo style on a train that was home to the Benzini Brothers circus . Mentored by a alcoholic but kindly circus worker named Camel he starts working caring for the animals in what was known as the menagerie . He will assume the duties of a true vet and work under the schizophrenic equestrian director August . Augie is married to celebrated equestrian performer Marlena who Jankowski falls deeply in love with.Water for Elephants is essentially a look back into the 3 12 months that Jankowski worked in the circus revealing the seamier underbelly of circus life from the side unseen by the rubes or circusgoers . The book concludes with the nonagenarian Jankowski once again fulfilling an improbable circus fantasy . ",3
"This book is very touching and entertaining . I was reluctant to read this but once I started I just ca n't put it down . If you like to know about what it is like behind the circus ' life being old and left alone..pick this one . You will understand more how to deal with old people and what its in their mind I have no doubt I will re read this book again in the future ",4
"I will say I have not seen the movie I just read the book . This was a good book . I read it in 2 days because I got very involved in the plot . There were a couple of things I did not like for example what happened to two of his buddies but the story itself was good . You will never look at the circu the same way afte reading this one . ",3
"Good book pleasant read with some sad parts . I would read it again . The life of a cut circus performerworker is pretty entertaining . ",3
"This book took me by surprise . It seemed to drag a bit through the first few chapters but then it got very interesting very quickly . I was not a fan of the bad language but the author really tries to put the reader in the rough circus setting and unfortunately the circus is composed of lessthanpolished people . This book is full of action and has a great romance story . I loved the ending . Minus the language and crudeness I would give this book 5 out of 5.PS I 'VE HEARD THAT ROBERT PATTINSON WILL BE PLAYING JACOB JANKOWSKI IN THE MOVIE IN 2011 ! ",3
"I just finished Water for Elephants the day before yesterday ! I ca n't seem to find anything I want to read now as that story just wo n't go away . It was far and beyond one of my favorite books . I just loved it ! Once I started it I could n't put it down . Now I want to see more pictures of the old circuses . Amazing what she was able to capture with her words and that she could understand what an old man could be feeling and thinking . I love it when I can find a book like hers . I highly recommend it ! ",4
"This by far was one of the best books that I have read this year ! Ms. Gruen takes us there to the Circus in the depression era the whole experience was riviting from beginning to end . I highly recommend this to anyone contemplating choosing this book you will not be disappointed ! I look forward to reading her other published works although it will be tough to top this one ! ",4
"This book was an absolute delight to read . Characters fleshed out enough to actually care about them and a wellresearched insight into Depressionera circus life.As fare as plot goes there 's probably nothing you have n't already seen or read a hundred times over in romance novels or Lifetime Network movies for TV . Same material set against a new backdrop.Sometimes a good read is just that a good read . It does n't have to be lifechanging just entertaining . I love how it was all told as a personal history.I do appreciate the author 's exhaustive research to get the circus terms right . My only small complaint and maybe I missed something was that not all the terms were defined for the reader . It does not take away from the storyline at all . ",3
"I hesitate to slap a derisive label like chick lit on anything but author Sara Gruen 's third novel is a prime example of the worst kind of women 's fiction Water for Elephants was obviously written by a woman solely for other women with no attempt to be realistic from the male point of view . Instead it perpetuates the romantic ideals set forth by Harlequin and its ilk heights that no threedimensional male can ever reach . No wonder it was a wordofmouth bestseller.This is shown most strikingly through Gruen 's protagonist Jacob Jankowski . He does not talk think or act like any straight man I have ever met . The purpose he serves it seems is to stand in for a lot of women 's idea of what a man should be . When a man looks at another man and calls him unshaven with the implication that what he really means is unclean you know you 're nowhere near reality . This type of man lives only in fiction.Gruen even makes Jacob a virgin though old enough to have a degree from veterinary school so that when he and the female lead finally make it to the bed which is inevitable in this world it more closely match the unspoken wishes of her audience.Now understand men 's fiction is no better from the woman 's point of view with the hero more often than not bedding the female lead who then conveniently dies so he can have access to a series of new women without guilt for the expense of a succession of prostitutes . I 'm not saying it 's any better but at least it 's marketed to men and not a general audience.Gruen relies so much on stereotypes from romance novels or even just their covers and chick flicks that none of the characters in Water for Elephants ever feels like a real human being but simply an archetype playing its part in her story . The writing flows nicely and the story is somewhat interesting if you do n't mind melodrama.Also Gruen manages to humanize people who have previously been seen as freaks but this was all for nought when I never believed that the narrator was telling me the truth about his gender . I actually kept waiting for that to be a twist in the story and in fact was disappointed when it never came.Plus if a man were really telling the story he would undoubtedly have recognized the sophomoric unintentional hilarity in the following passage Teams of men are raising enormous poles . I pass a group of ten throwing their combined weight against a single rope as a man off to the side chants Pull it shake it break it ! Againpull it shake it break it ! Now downstake it ! p. 34.Yeah that 's what she said ! ",1
"Very interesting characters in this novel . I honestly enjoyed the main character when he was old and young . Highly recommended ! ",4
"do n't know what I expected this to be about but I was surprised pleasantly . Good characters good story good presentation . ",3
"At first I was skeptical about reading a book about a circus but everyone I know that has read the book had given it great reviews . I 'm glad to say I was not disappointed . The author did a great job with this book and detailing the era in which it is written . I bought this book on my Kindle and can honestly say I could not put it down the convenience of having my Kindle books available through apps on my cell phone computer and the actual Kindle made it even harder to put down and all the more exciting to read . I highly recommend this book it did not disappoint in any way ! ",4
"I loved this book and the story is terrific . I also thought the movie was done well . Although I enjoy reading books more to get more of the details of the story which I think you miss in the movie . ",4
"I wish I had written my review for this novel a lot sooner as I finished it over three months ago especially since I loved it so much . I am unable to comment on all the details that made this book highly enjoyable but nonetheless I wanted to add my review.One of the first things that piqued my interest was the fact that the main character was 93years old or was it 90 ? which lent a different perspective to the storyline and resolution . Jaocb was a very likeable main character in his old age and in his youth but was not the only character you felt invested in . The character of Walter Kinko with this dog Queenie was just as intriguing despite his secondary role in the story . As well the antagonist August was just as aptly developed which made you fear his anger towards Marlena and Rosie . Speaking of Rosie as an animallover I cared deeply for her safety and sucess in the future of the circus.I was surprised to find out that the author knew very little about the circus prior to writing this book but she did an excellent job of researching to pull off a very believable backgroundsetting for this story.The characters live with you long after the story is over and you find yourself wondering what happened to Mr. Jacob Jankowski as he started on a new adventure in his life at 93 or was it 90 ? . ",4
"Gripping and suspenseful . Kept me on the edge of my seat . I love romantic stories that have struggles and this definitely fulfilled that want . ",4
"Amazing . The author really did her research for this book . When reading it it was hard to put down . She went back and forth between present day and memories which usually bothers me but here it did n't . I found that I enjoyed both time periods . Everything was well told and really brought the images to life while reading . It was a very colorful read . ",3
"Is where you 're from the place you 're leaving or where you have roots ? Jacob Jankowski is a young man studying to be a vet at Cornell . When both of his parents die in a car accident Jacob is so torn up he runs away in the middle of his final exams and joins up on a circus train the Benzini Brothers ' Most Spectacular Show on Earth . His life in the Depression era on a traveling circus are intercut with the present day 90something year old Jacob reminiscing about the past and dealing with one of the most difficult obstacles life.I LikedWith the movie due to appear in theaters soon and the recommendation from a friend I decided to hunt down an audiobook and listen . And in short am I glad.Before I started reading I thought based on either the blurb on the back cover and the movie trailer that the book was a love story dressed up in circus costumes in the vein of James Cameron 's Titanic . Poor boy meets wealthy attached married girl both fall in love blah blah blah . Throw in some random animals circus acts and there you go.I was pleasantly surprised to see that this was n't the case . The characters were beautifully drawn and real from our protagonist and narrator Jacob to his bunkmate KinkoWalter to our love interest Marlena to our antagonist Big Al . The story focuses more on the circus life than on the love between Marlena and Jacob . The setting was beautiful and intricate the ambience was spectacular and grotesque sometimes at the same time ! and I truly felt transported back into the past . Not to mention there were many tearjerker momentsreal emotional moments not those written just to elicit a pornographic emotional response.Jacob was a good narrator . I felt his pain as his parents died I understood his awe at Rosie I felt his disgust at August 's disgusting behavior . But my favorite character was Marlena and I can definitely see why Reese Witherspoon was cast as her . She is spunky fun mature and spirited . My heart broke hearing how her family abandoned her just because she married a Jew she was Catholic and I hated how August treated her . Walter was also another great character . It was terrible how his mother basically sold him to the circus just because of his dwarfism . And the scene where he almost loses Queenie really brought home how alone and lonely this poor guy was.So many novels these days seem to be window dressing for a love story but this novel is n't one of them . Sure a cornerstone of the novel is about Marlena and Jacob but there is much more going on . A man 's journey into coping with death . The horrors of the circus . How hard life was back in the Depression . Escapism . The trials of growing older . The need to belong . The story deftly wove back and forth between younger and older Jacob and I found myself interested in BOTH sides not just one or the other.I Did n't LikeIn places the novel is very graphic . I did n't care for when Jacob barged in on someone AHEMing or hearing about the two ladies AHEMing Jacob.I would have liked to have seen a little more of the acts that went on in the circus though I suppose those would work better in a visual medium.DialogueSexual SituationsViolenceA few fbombs amongst milder profanities.Jacob is interested in losing his virginity . While drunk two women try to perform sexual acts on him but Jacob vomits on one . Two characters make love self love is shown once or twice.The story opens with a character about to be impaled . Camel is crippled because of his drinking . August is abusive to his animals and to others . Workers have been thrown off the train a practice called red lighting.OverallThis is an impressive book one that totally bucked all my prejudices and preconceived notions . It was able to do what a lot of books ca n't make me care about the characters and take me to another world . I only hope that the movie when it comes out can do it justice . Highly recommended.Brought to you byC.S . Light ",4
"I read both of Sara Gruen 's previous books primarily because they were horse stories . I was really looking forward to her next book and was disappointed to see that it was n't about horses at all . It hit the best seller list and I read the reviews . It did n't appeal to me at all . I read more reviews . Eh . Finally I decided to read it . I 'm so glad I did ! This is one of those books that draws you in on the first page and does n't let you go until the end . I 'm recommending this to everyone I know and I 'm recommending it to you . Read it you wo n't be sorry . ",4
"I found this book so easy to read ! It was entertaining educational and just troubling enough to keep me totally captivated . I would recommend this to anyone that enjoys a good book with characters you can enjoy and despise . ",3
"I really enjoyed this book read it in 2 nights and in the end came away with a good feeling . The insight into the old circus life was interesting & exciting . The insight into how our elderly are treated was sad and eye opening . Then inbetween was woven love adventure friendship animals racism murder mystery with a happy ending . What more could you ask for ? ",4
"I bought this book based on the reviews and I loved it . It may not be perfect but it is a great fun easy read . Loved the ending ! ",4
"Water for Elephants gives you a peek at the life of circus performers and the crew during a time when jobs were scarce in America . The characters in the story are as colorful on stage as off . This is a book that you wo n't want to put down as the circus train weaves in and out of towns with the array of likable and seedy characters . And just when you think you know how the story will endyou will discover you were wrong . ",4
"If you read no other novel this year make it this one . This is perhaps the most extraordinary novel I 've read in literally years from an author with truly AWESOME talent . Generally I read almost nothing but mystery novelsand ones with hardbitten heroes at thatnot even a hint of anything sniveling . I 'm just not a touchiefeelie kind of girl . So if a feelgood book like this can affect me so enormously just think what it 'll do for those of you who like this kind of stuff ! Only partly joking here but truly this is one magnificent work of literary art . Inside glimpses of life in a 1930 's circus are so intimately written and ring so true that it 's hard to believe Ms. Gruen is n't 90 years old writing memoirs . Each character is so artfully rendered that you care and care deeply ! about every single one of them . You love them or hate them with equal measures of intensity . Add the super special treat at the beginning of most chapters of real photos from these old circuses and you have just a jewel of a book . Obviously I 'm drooling all over myself in this review but I ca n't recommend it strongly enough to everyone no matter your preferences in reading material . I took a chance and am SO glad I did . Oh and Ms. Gruen has a sense of humor too ! There are parts of the book where I guarantee you will be unable to hold back from a big belly laugh right out loud . Please get this book . You will NOT regret a single minute of reading time . I fully intend to go now and buy every book she 's every written hoping for another glimpse of her genius . ",4
"I decided to read this book because I was looking for something different and I did find that . I thought it was well written and it was a very quick read but I have to say that for me it was not a four or five star read . The characters were interesting and Rosie was great ! ! A fun read but not all it was built up to be for me . ",2
"An intriguingly wonderful history lesson that allows us a look at the history makers ' heart ! We all have feelings we all need to express them . Thank you Mrs. Gruen . ",4
"My two best friends and I are all avid readers although we usually read very different books . One of them got it loved it and gave it to me and this book was passed around for several months . We had a mother in law an ex boyfriend all reading it which really speaks to how good the book is.You can read the other reviews to find out what its aboutI 'm telling you you will be hooked instantly . Clear your schedule . This is n't a book you want to start reading when its going to be a week before you can pick it up again . ",4
"This book is a mustread . I could n't put it down in for the whole two days it took to read . In a way I 've already imagined what it would be like as a movie because the author uses such rich imagedry you feel like you 're at the circus with Jacob and Marlena . It 's really a facinating book GO OUT AND BUY IT ! ! ! ! ",4
"Stop reading reviews and buy the book ! Seriously ! The author took time to research old school circus art and politics . I truly enjoyed this book ",4
"Water for Elephants is an awesome story about an engaging character that had me sneaking my kindle out at work to read a bit more.I loved it from start to finish . Some have criticized the amalgamation of the Jacob story from the Bible and post depression circuses but it works beautifully.The level of detail and insight into the train circus world shows an incredible amount of research but one of the most amazing things is none of those details come across as research . They are as natural to the story as the characters . ",4
"Not being even remotely a Robert Pattinson fan and not liking circuses either I put off reading this book for several months after it was purchased . I still could n't help visualizing Robert Pattinson as the lead character but eventually the story took over and Robert faded a little . I was pleasantly surprised at how much I really liked the book . Well written good story line and a bit of a surprise ending . Still wo n't watch the movie that Robert thing again but the book is always better anyway . ",4
"Yes this story reads like a script and I was interested in the characters..however I thought the terrible things that happen was just too much . Reading about the terrible things that happen to animals the perverted things that carnies do it was just too much I wanted to erase that stuff from my brain the moment I read it . That is just not entertaining to me at all . I really did enjoy how the book tied what happened from the beginning to the end very nicely . That was very interesting to me and I 'm glad I finished it . I could do without all the other crap though . ",2
"I loved this book even though I have sold a lot of my books because of a lack of shelf space this one I will always keep . Have already recommended it to many of my friends . Do n't want to say anything about the story it is a treasure . ",4
"What a delightful read ! Water for Elephants has got to be one of the best reads for anyone that likes animals circuses and a very wonderfully flowing story . Working in or for a circus especially in past years had to be one of the most grueling and tough jobs to tackle . Sara Gruen makes the reader smell the circus smells taste the midway foods and be in the ring with the animals as they entertain . I have not been to a circus since I was a teenager which is MANY years ago . Water for Elephants took me back to those days reminding me of some of the things I saw and smelled.His family placed Jacob Jankowski in a home for old folks because none of them wanted to have to take care of him . Sad but true . Jacob is not sure if he is ninety or ninetythree years of age . He only knows his age is somewhere around that range . Jacob hates the other old people in the home hates the food and hates the nurses that treat him like he does not know what he is doing or saying . This is no life for Jacob Jankowski ! The story then goes back to when Jacob was in Cornell College studying to be a veterinarian . He was shy about women wanted nothing to do with them socially . Jacob thought he must be the worlds oldest male virgin . Jacob does well with his schooling until one day he was called out of class and told that both of his parents had been killed in an automobile accident . Jacob of course was crushed mentally and physically . This could n't be happening to him . His parents had been paying his way through college so he figured he could continue his education with whatever his parents left him . His father was also a veterinarian with a good practice . Jacob was beside himself when he was told that all the property his parents owned was being taken because of no funds to pay for the bills . It turns out that his father bartered with his customers as they paid him in chickens eggs animals or whatever they had but not money.This upset Jacob so much that he just took off walking and walking until he came to a rail track that had a train moving that he was going to jump on regardless of where it was going . Thus Jacob began his circus life when he jumped that train and met other circus performers and roustabouts . He had no idea what lie ahead . His inclusion into the circus life was difficult as the circus does not like young rubes being around experienced circus people . When they found out he was almost a veterinarian they were elated as they had no one to medically care for the animals . This gave Jacob a ticket into circus life.As I said originally the author makes you feel as though you were in the circus troupe as they raised their tents did their shows ate the food available got paid when there was money running away from the law when one or more in the circus caused a problem with the law or local authorities traveled on the circus train never knowing for sure where they would end up putting up with the circus owner and top management that treated most of the help like dirt.Of course there was much in the book about personal lives of the circus employees and owners . Also how the circus obtained more animals and equipment legally or otherwise . It is an eye opener for anyone to read . It makes one wonder how these circus people existed in those days of traveling and living such an uncertain existence.The story does occasionally go back to Jacob in the home in which he is so unhappy . The circus comes to town and sets up right next to the home making Jacob so excited to be so close to the circus even though it is not one of the ones he worked when younger . The days passed so slowly as he waited for his family to come and take him to his big visit to the big top.I doubt anyone could read this book without coming away with a great understanding of those old circus days and what they meant to the people that worked that hard life . You will know that Sara Gruen put much time and effort in her research for Water for Elephants . You WILL enjoy this book . It will entertain you and educate you at the same time . ",4
"Saw the movie before getting the book which I downloaded from Kindle . Really liked the movie and then decided to buy the book . The book is an easy read and if you ever have been to a circus or were curious about behind the scenes then you will probably enjoy the book . If you are looking for a deep mystery then this is probably not for you but if you like love stories and do n't want to have to keep a notepad beside you to jot down things to remember so as not to get lost or confused in the story then this is the book for you . I loved reading it on lazy days when I did n't have to concentrate real hard but could let my mind and imagination get lost in the characters and their telling of the story . This Kindle book was downloaded immediately without any problems as usual . ",4
"This books was one of my favorites for the year . This book flashes from present day Jacob 93 living in a nursing home to Jacob 's summer traveling with the circus during the 1930 's Depression era . Not only do you have these rich circus characters and animals but also you have the interesting time period . The writing is flawless the charactersanimals Rosie my favorite are amazing the plot keeps you interested and you root for the Jacob in the past and his present condition.The slight twist in the whodunit revealed near the end was also suprising ",4
"Love the story and character development . Writing was eloquent . It read and played out like a movie and was bitter sweet . ",4
"This fabulous tale written The Notebook style drew me in right from the beginning and I literally could n't stop reading untilI was nearly finished and I had to put it down because did n't want the story to end . ",4
"Although it is only April I predict that Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen will be one of the best books I read this year . Gruen has proven to be an amazing storyteller.Water for Elephants is told in the first person but from two different perspectivesJacob Jankowski at 23 years of age and again at 93 years old . Gruen seamlessly weaves the chapters between past and present . Jacob at 23 is finishing up his last semester at Cornell Veterinary School when a family tragedy causes him to flee . He finds himself on a train for the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth in 1931 . Needing a vet the circus hires young Jacob to tend to their menagerie . Jacob at 93 resides in a nursing home where he laments the curses of old age the passing of his wife and the waning affection of his family . The arrival of a visiting circus triggers a flashback to his youthful circus experiences.1931 is a hard time for almost all Americans and the circus workers are as hard hit as any . Most are one step away from being homeless and jobless . Conditions on the circus train are harsh for most . Many workers go weeks without being paid and they tend to disappear during the night when times are tough management has them thrown off the train . The menagerie is often times treated better than the workers . But the circus does provide three meals a day and a place to sleepeven it if might mean a horse blanket on a train bed floor . Jacob discovers very quickly that he 's just about the only advocate the animals have and he must battle a ruthless owner Uncle Al and a crazy animal trainer August.Any circus has more than their fair share of interesting characters and Gruen 's circus is no exception . In addition to Uncle Al and August there is Walter the midget clown Marlena an equestrian with whom Jacob falls in love and Grady and Camel workers . One of the most sympathetic characters in Water for Elephants is Rosie the elephantwho shares more human characteristics and feelings than some of the circus bosses . The tenderhearted Jacob quickly grows to manhood as he is forced to protect both animals and coworkers from abuse and worse.Water for Elephants is a delightful moving book and the ending was a very pleasant surprise . Also if you want a special treat listen to it on audiobook . The two readers David LeDoux and John Randolph Jones did a wonderful job of bringing both Jacobs young and old to life . ",4
"Sometimes a reader 's expectations can greatly influence how she or he views a book . With a name like Water for Elephants and a historical background as interesting as the Great Depression I had expected to read a book about the difficulties of the circus life and how the historical backdrop influenced these characters ' lives . What I got instead was a sentimental love story dressed in the glitz of a historical novel a slightly betterwritten version of a Nicholas Sparks novel.At the start of the book the circus has just come to town and that effectively got our querulous 93yearold narrator to start reminiscing about the good old days when he used to travel with the Benzini Brother 's Most Spectacular Show on Earth as a veterinarian . As it turned out 23yearold Jacob Jankowski was one exam away from getting his veterinarian 's degree from Cornell when both of his parents were killed in an automobile accident . After having handled all of his parents ' affairs and after having found out that he 's now virtually penniless the griefstricken young man walked out of his class room and hopped on the first train that crossed his path a train that turned out to be the circus train owned by a ruthless circus owner Big Al . For the next 3 12 months Jacob travelled with the circus as a veterinarian taking care of the animals in the manegerie during the day and traveling from city to city by night . It was also during this time that he met Marlena the cricus performer who turned out to be the love of his life and her cruel but charismatic husband August . The three soon developed the kind of complicated relationship that any romance reader worth hisher salt will know how it 's going to turn out.The greatest strenght of this book definitely lies in the author 's portrayl of circus life as they were in the early 1930 's . With Big Al August and Walter the midget the author has assembled a memorable cast of secondary characters that the readers will either love to hate or root for . Walter in particular turns out to be a character with much more depth than initially meets the eye and how his relationship with Jacob evolved and developed was one of the highlights of the book . Equally interesting was Jacob 's interactions with Rosie a mischievous elephant that ended up being the catalyst for a key event that will change Jacob 's life . I 've never been a fan of the circus but reading about Rosie 's antics made me want to grab a handful of peanuts and head to the zoo.Regrettably our main protagonists in the featured love story are n't nearly as interesting as the secondary or even the animal characters in the book . Jacob in particular has about as much personality as a gnat . Throughout the book he was grouchy as a 93yearold and whiny and ineffectual as a 23yearold . Some of the atrocities committed against the members of the circus all in the name of survival and profit is heartbreaking . And yet other than to rant and spend time sulking and moping around in his stockcart Jacob was useless when it comes to helping his friends or even taking fate into his own hands . Ultimately his life turned out the way he wanted it to not because of any initiative on his part but pure luck . Since the book was told in first person from Jacob 's point of view the character of Marlena was even more underdeveloped than Jacob . All we know is that she 's this beautiful girl in pink sequin that caught Jacob 's eye the day he joined the circus and from then on he was lost . There certainly was n't enough interaction between the two to make their romance remotely convincing . And for a book whose central theme is the great forbidden romance between two people who met at the wrong time this is a great failure.So in summation if you are expecting to read a meaty historical that provides insight to what the circus life was like back during the 1930 's skip the book . If you are a fan of Nicholas Sparks and looking for a sentimental love story to tide you over until his next publication this may just be your cup of tea . ",1
"The story was good enough to keep you turning pages . The reason I liked this book was the insight into the lonely world of nursing home patients that still have all their mental facilities . It forced me to consider how senior generations soon my parents then myself will deal with frailty dignity & mortality . Choices are thrust upon them by well meaning dogooders . Maybe we should allow seniors more slack to live the lives of THEIR choosing . Either way it aided me to see seniors with more compassion . ",3
"I have wanted to read Water for Elephants for some time but I needed to be in the correct frame of mind in the event there were too many disturbing animal stories . After learning my friend had a copy and my dad was currently reading it I decided it was time.This book as been billed as a love story within a circus however the love story does not really start until well after the half way point of the book maybe even twothirds of the way in . There are many stories happening all at once . The story of a lost boy trying to find his way a coming of age story . The story of friendships and life long bonds . The story of an almost veterinarian finding his way in the crazy life of a train circus . And the story of love . With all these potential story lines happening at one time I found the author had a tendency to wrap them up rather simply by killing someone off leaving only the main characters to survive.While overall I did enjoy this book it was not as wonderfully fantastic as I was hoping it would be . Maybe my hopes were too high from all the rave reviews I have heard . But it just did not stand up to my expectations for this book . I will give the book 3.5 out of 5 stars . I would liked to have seen more depth to the characters a more focused story line and a bit more thought into how to wrap up the lives of some of the characters . ",3
"There were times I had to stop reading this book because it was so graphic . I ca n't stand animal abuse of any kind and I literally wanted to cry as the author described the treatment of the circus animals . Some reviewers here have also been blasted for their criticism of the soft porn in this book but it IS graphic and can be rather shocking . I did n't expect this in the book at all and so as much as I wanted to like this book I have my reservations about it . Just be aware that there are some moments in Water for Elephants that are not for the squeamish or sensitive . ",2
"I love depression era stories and to hear it from a circus 's perspective was pretty cool . I lived right beside the place where they had the county fair every year so found the carney part of it very interesting . ",4
"The audio CD was EXCELLENTuse of different and well chosen voices for the younger and elderly Jacob telling a tale that spans 7 decades.The story was about LIFE and sudden curveballs thrown one 's way and the rewardsrepercussions for making snap decisions at those snap moments.The background of the circus set in depression era America was a bonus . I loved the multifaceted characters . The author touched upon social problems that are eternalsocial status based on wealth and education physical differencesdisabilitiesdomestic abusealcholismhomelessnesselderly dignity elderly drivingvehicular manslaughterloss and recovery of HOPE and LOVE.The character development was wonderful . Walter was not just a dwarf He had a mother who threw him away because he would not be a help on the family farm . Walter though bitter still had the capacity to loveamazing . . .I did enjoy the circus settinglearned much about things I never knew while listening to a lovely connected work of fiction . This was no Middlesexmy favorite book af the decade yet it is a fine wellwritten saga . ",3
"This was an unexpectedly wonderful book . Witty funny and exceptionally moving . Who would have thought the circus is as bureaucratic and complicated as the corporate world ! The glimpse into life on a traveling circus was an enlightening and refreshing backdrop from which to catapult some of the themes we all face in our daily lives . This book narrates the life of Jacob Janowski an aspiring vet who is left orphaned and hops aboard what he soon learns is a train belonging to the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth ! This book is full of hearty laughs and painful disappointments . You will fall in love with Jacob 's relentless cando attitude and his inherent affection and commitment towards those he grows to love . Rosie the elephant will touch you in ways you can not imagine . There is a certain depth around the love that animals exude . It is silent and unspoken yet so powerful . Rosie is intelligent and caring and through her vigilant eyes and silent actions is a magnificent portrayal of loyalty and friendship . Walter the clown is another character to whom I grew very attached . He is the typical insecure cynic whose interior consists of nothing but a soft shell . He embodies the spirit of change and devotion and camaraderie . This incredible cast of characters makes this a book of overwhelming depth. ` Water for Elephants ' was a surprisingly poignant story that is brimming with emotion . The characters are so authentic their memory will remain with you well after the pages of this book have ended . It was a truly unique and enjoyable read . Highly recommended . ",4
"I really enjoyed reading this book . I had to do so through tears most of the time . I really loved the way she wrote the story from both perspectives of Jacob as a young man and as an old man . It helped it mean more to me to read about it from his memory . It reminded me of what treasures we have in our elderly . I also loved to see all the old pictures they were great . On the down side of the book there was more then needed sex and bad language in the story for me . But that 's just me . I do like the book and am very glad I read it . I would suggest it to other adults to read . ",4
"I read this book in a day . A day . I just sat and read and read and could n't put it down.For those unfamiliar with the plot Jacob Jankowski is 90 . Or 93 . He is living in an assisted living home . One day the residents notice a circus going up near the home and it brings back a flood of memories for Jacob . He unfolds for the reader the story of his time with the Benzini Brothers Circus in 1931 of how he met Marlena Walter Camel and a cast of other characters especially Rosie who is one amazing elephant I fell in love with her too . It was an incredible ride and I 'm not sure how to summarize it better than that.Gruen 's descriptions are so apt one can smell the animals the popcorn the sawdust and the sweat . It 's an incredible achievement . The entire spectacle is so vivid that you 'll swear all the people contained in its pages are real and breathe or did once . It 's the kind of book that makes you forget you 're reading a book and transports you to another time and place and it 's definitely earned a place on my favorites shelf.If you like me have waited to read this one do yourself a favor and read it now . ",4
"I love books that make me feel the grit of sawdust between my teeth . Sawdust ? Why yes if you 're reading a circus murder mystery . Only it is n't much of a mystery as you learn whodunnit on the second page . Only no do n't be so sure . A lovely youarethere novel of the betweenwars years in America wherein one newly orphaned and penniless Jacob Jankowski runs away to join a downattheheels circus whose owner has serious Ringling Brothers envy complete with ladies fat and bearded unfriendly dwarfs and homicidalwait no I 'll give it away . With an ending that made me smile all day after I finished the book . ",3
"I really liked this book . I 'm not a fan of the storyline but the writing carries you through a world not known to most of us . Weird characters made real with a very easy style of writing . ",3
"Engrossing story . I love anything that takes me into a different world and holds me there and this story does that the writing is simple but the characters the settings the whole circus world is vividly portrayed . This book is always on my TR to recommend list when people are looking for a great sweeping read dense with everything that makes a book memorable . ",3
"'Water for Elephants ' provides an insiders peek behind the curtain of a traveling train circus . Anyone who ever went to a circus and played the games on the midway are rubes wanting to be thrilled enchanted and take leave of reality for a day . The illusion lasts about as long as cloud of cotton candy . The inside story delves into the darker aspects of what makes the circus viable especially during the 1930 's Depression era . The reader is introduced to a strict caste system from bosses to performers to roustabouts that determines one 's position among a long train of characters . The practice of 'redlighting ' is particularly powerful a Darwinian survival of the fittest practice where the circus bosses have the used up roustabouts tossed from the train as excess baggage . Our hero is Jacob Jankowski that over the course of only 3 12 months joins the circus . As a veternarian he does not fit into the caste system . Through his character we take a journey making allies with unlikely people finding love and slaying personal deamons . ",3
"like many others i was disappointed by the dialogue and characters in this book . an embarrassingly poor effort.i also wondered by the author choose to emphatically make the only evil character jewish when no one else 's religion was even mentioned . what is with that ? any ideas ? ",0
"This book already has over 3500 positive reviews on Amazon and every one of them is well deserved . This book was a wonderful treasure . I eargerly awaited each time in my day when my schedule allowed fiction reading so I could get back to this story . The characters are three dimensional compelling and as genuine as your next door neighbors or your longlost aunts and uncles . The circus setting was fascinating and the storytelling was firstrate does n't get much better than this . I highly recommend this book . I have n't seen the movie yet but if it 's even half as good as the book it will be tremendous . ",4
"Few novels have touched more childhood memories than Water for Elephants . As a young boy I remember the excitement of the circus coming to town with strange animals and stranger performers . Thanks for giving me a trip down memory lane while telling a wonderful story . ",3
"Water for Elephants is an engrossing story about life in an early 1930 's depressionera traveling circus but is also about so much more . Jacob Jankowski is presently ninety or ninetythree he does n't recall and living out the end of his life in a nursing home . He has family who visit but they are busy enough with their own lives that he is largely forgotten . A circus comes to town and Jacob thinks back on his own youthful experiences.I appreciate the story 's realistic portrayal of early 20th century circus life . The animals live and work in conditions that are horrific but at the same time they are the lifeblood of the show next to the human performers and are therefore treated well enough to that extent . The author Sara Gruen mentions in an interview that many of the anecdotes in the tale are plucked from real life accounts . For example an elephant stealing lemonade from the lemonade stand when no one is looking . Truth is stranger than fiction indeed . ",3
"This story about a young man who runs away to the circus is beautiful in the way it paints an older man near the end of his life in a loving endearing way . Older people are real people whose value is in no way diminished . In fact they have lived their life and survived life 's most difficult challenges . And yet despite all they 've learned and know they are given so little respect . Every day they courageously cope with challenges that most of us have never even come close to experiencing . Even their family often treats them callously or worse like little children . Some older folk are cranky like the character in this story but considering what they 've been through they deserve kindness in return not defensiveness . The treatment of this older man by nurse Rosemary in this book has inspired me to love older people and respect them more . ",4
"Very interesting story . Lots of great characters and interesting story line . I hesitated to start reading this because I thought it was just a love story how glad I am that I did read it . The characters and situations were great and very interesting . ",4
"I bought this book on the recommendation of my good friend and I absolutely fell in love with it . Sara Gruen is so articulate and a true storyteller . She weaves a mesmerizing tale of the magical and historical side of the behind the scenes of circus life . The deceit and downright meanness ' gets transformed into this entertaining tale . The people and the elephant will linger in your memory long after you finish this story . A super read and I Highly recommend this novel . ",3
"I really enjoyed this book . Thankfully I did n't know a lot about it prior to reading it . The subject matter would n't have seemed interesting to me . But the book was very interesting and opened my eyes to a world I 've never given any thought to before . Once you get into it it is hard to put down . ",3
"It had my attention from the first page to the last . Absolutely brilliant ! Could not put it down . ",4
"I knew very little about this book before I read it . I did n't know quite what to expect but I thoroughly enjoyed it . It certainly was n't as good as The Kite Runner or other great books I 've read thus why I did n't give it five stars but it was still a very good story . I would easily recommend it to others . The author creates a rather fantastic situation a Cornell veterinary student who suddenly finds himself a penniless orphan during the Great Depression . The story takes us to a circus train a love triangle and an elephant . Gruen weaves a wonderful tale that I found captivating told both in the present and the past . In the meantime I learned a great deal about circus life in the 1930s . ",3
"WATER FOR ELEPHANTS is really two books rolled into one . The first involves a young depressionera veterinarian who loses his parents in a car accident just days before taking his final exams . His father also a vet had mortgaged his practice to the hilt to pay for his son 's Cornell education . At loose ends the boy hooks up with a circus.The second has to do with the same man now a miserable nonagenarian confined to a senior citizens home . He gets into a fight with another old man who claims to have carried water for the elephants . You do n't carry water for the elephants you take the elephant to the water . One would think the first story would be more compelling since the circus is a world of its own with its own language and culture but it 's really the ninetyyearold who wins our hearts . His people come to see him every weekend but he does n't really know who they are he does n't remember if he 's ninety or ninetythree . But he does remember the circus.The circus story is kind of hokey . Almost immediately the young vet Jacob Jankowski falls in love with Marlena the star of the equestrian act . The problem is she 's already married to the animal trainer who just happens to be a paranoid schizophrenic . He 's also insanely jealous . Then there 's the elephant Rosie who only speaks Polish Camel an alcoholic roustabout who helps Jacob get a job with the circus and Kinko the dwarf who at first is an enemy of Jacob 's but later befriends him when Jacob cures Kinko 's dog Queenie of the trots . The book does come to life periodically when Sara Gruen uses real circus lore . For instance Uncle Al the circus owner loves freaks . He takes the circus train on a wild ride when he has a chance to employ Charles MansfieldLivingston a man with a parasite twin growing out of his chest whom he calls Chaz.Gruen also provides numerous reallife circus pictures one of which is especially titillating . She got them from STEP RIGHT THIS WAY THE PHOTOGRAPHS OF EDWARD J. KELTY and WILD WEIRD AND WONDERFUL THE AMERICAN CIRCUS AS SEEN BY F.W . GLASIER.Gruen keeps you turning pages relying on a couple of suspense elements . Does Jacob get the girl and does Jacob the nonagenarian get to see a circus one last time ? I had a bit of a problem with Gruen 's ending . I suppose it might appeal to the sentimentalists out there but let 's just say it 's not exacting realistic or believable . ",2
"Not my usual cup of tea this was a delightful novel quickly read with a great setting and entertaining characters . There were actually two stories in one the first being an engaging tale of a distraught youth running away with the circus and finding his manhood love and responsibility for others . I found the narrative compelling and the characters worth caring about.The second story embedded in the first or is it the other way around is that of an elderly man growing weaker in body who is still sharp enough to know that he 's fading quickly . His faculties are starting to have issues but he again is smart and together enough to realize this as well . His story of a strong vibrant will trapped in a failing vehicle is incredibly poignant and if a writer were talented enough could make for a captivating book on its own.The easy highaction story of the circus makes up most of the book but is tempered very well by the internal musings and frustrations of the second.All in all very satisfying and highly recommended . ",3
"Sara Gruen spoke about how her literary agent turned down Water for Elephants in the talk she gave last year for the Rosamond Gifford Lecture Series the largest library related lecture series in the country sponsored by the Friends of the Central Library Onondaga County System Central New York . This was the second or third ? book she had done with that agent . She told the audience of 2500 people that when she proposed the manuscript to the agent the agent told her There 's no market for books about circuses and turned the book down . Sara 's response as I recall was What books about circuses ? This got a big laugh from the audience most of whom had read Water for Elephants . All wannabe authors writing anything other than romance historical fiction and vampires take note . There is hope for you.She is not only an outstanding writer but also an engaging speaker . I personally enjoyed the book immensely although I was a little uncomfortable with the first person present point of view . She struggled a little with probability at the end but I especially liked the little illustrations liberally sprinkled throughout the book that she had obtained from the Ringling folks in Sarasota . ",4
"It might be difficult to find someone who has not read the book or seen the movie . After all the book stayed on the New York Times bestseller list for over two years . So there is no shortage of opinions on the novel and the movie . I am not sure I have anything new to add but I will offer my take on three of the most debated of the book vs. movie questions.Spoiler alert Stop if you have not yet read the novel or seen the movieThe book Uncle Al and August are two separate characters . The movie The two are combined into August . Verdict The movie got it right . Uncle Al is an underdeveloped character in the book . The movie gives us one villain who is more menacing especially as portrayed by Christoph Waltz.The book Marlena gets pregnant with Jacob 's child . The movie She does not . Verdict The movie steered clear of the hackneyed device of having the woman in the pair of starcrossed lovers get pregnant.The book We are taken back and forth in time from the present of the old Jacob to the past of the young Jacob . The movie Scenes with Jacob as an old man bookend the story . Verdict I have mixed feelings about this one . The passages focused on Jacob as an old man are poignant insightful and empathetic . Some of the best storytelling on being old I have ever read . I would enjoy an entire book based on those passages . However they interrupted the flow of the narrative and suspended the building tension of the story . ",3
"I want to preface this review by stating that I loved the story . The characters are wonderful the depiction of an old time Circus and the life of those who were on the show is impressive.The book has two major flaws in my opinion . First the beginning of the book is a word for word copy of the most tense and climactic scene and the entire novel is spent just knowing you 're headed to that scene so all the power of that moment is spoiled . A linear telling of the tale start to finish would have been much better.I 'm not sure what was gained if anything by the dual voices of young and old narrator but I suspect it was done for literary effect . This is a very powerful tale of romance the bonds between men and animals passion love every time it shifts back to the present it 's like a deflating balloon.I wish the story had been told on it 's own without the unnecessary shifting of voice and had actually had a climax remaining when the climax arrivedI recommend the book but lament some of the choices the author made in presenting it . ",2
"Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen 2006Ms . Gruen writes an odd story . It is really two stories in one . The main one is of an almost veterinarian Jacob Jankowski who becomes caught up in the life of a circus . It is a romance boy meets girl boy loses girl boy gets girl back whoopee . In the afterword the author explains that she was wanting to do a story about the photographer of circus ' but she got caught up in all the rest of the circus history and it became this book . It is worthy and good . The second is of the same man in a nursing home or some such place who sort of does not belong there . He has lived his life and remembers it well . The instigation is the circus has come to town ! ! The chapters are defined by when is the story being told . Sometimes it is now he is old and ornery the next one he is remembering his life in the circus . The value is in the perspective as an old man he has problems but he deals with them somewhat as a young man he grows up and finds the love of his life . It is always wonderful to read a story of love growing and becoming the be all to end all . But real love is of the animals horses elephants orangutans chimpanzees and doing something constructive . In the end you feel that everything is wonderful and has come out all right.The odd thing like in some other places I have seen Passenger 54 the title comes from out of the blue once and it is never explained or spoken of again . ",4
"There were many positives about the story 1 Nice feel of what it was like to be in the circus during the depression 2 Great analysis of what it is like to be old in a rest home . 3 Excellent voice characters for the audio . 4 Beginning of good bipolar character.Negative 1 Feel of the story moved from period piece about the circus to feel of Nazi camp where all leaders are evil 2 Instead of developing bipolar character he was just written off as evil . 3 One big surprise in the book concerning the murder but not that monumental . 4 Three needless scenes that bordered on pornographic . ",2
"Wellwritten and colorful book . The movie was so bad it really turned me off from reading this but it was cheap so I gave it a try and enjoyed reading it . I recommend it if you are interested in the Depression era America or circuses or a human story in general . ",3
"An amazingly beautiful story Sara Gruen 's Water for Elephants is the tale of Jacob Jankowski and the 3 months that he worked for the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth circus . When we meet Jacob he is in his 90s living in a nursing home and reliving his days with the Benzini Brothers circus . It was through a chance encounter after the death of his parents that caused him to leave veterinary school and put his fate with the circus.I was really surprised by how quickly the story captured my attention . The novel jumps back and forth from now where we see Jacob dealing with the trials of old age and then as he remembers his days with the Benzini Brothers circus and how those days formed him into the man that he would grow to become . The sequences are fluid though and you find yourself easily swept along with the story . Sara Gruen 's prose is amazing I found myself on several occasions holding my breath I was so wrapped up in the story . Gruen clearly portrays her characters emotions and captures each of their voices and personalities perfectly and her portrayal of the lives of the circus folk in the 1920s30s was very grim . It was amazing to me that so many people would live that kind of life but I guess when that was the only work to be had they 'd take what they could get.Gruen seems to have done her research as well . Even though the Benzini Brothers circus is fictitious I think it was clearly influenced by any number of circus ' in operation at the time . She also makes reference to several actual circus events such as the Hartford Circus Fire of 1944 and the HagenbeckWallace Circus train accident of 1918 . Even down to the band playing The Stars and Stripes Forever during an emergency Gruen seems to have done her homework on circus life.If you have n't read this yet I 'd really recommend it . I 'd had the book on my shelf since it was released I was caught up in the buzz but never got around to actually reading it and after 2 friends mentioned it a couple weeks back I decided to take it off the shelf and give it a try . I 'm sorry that it took me that long to get around to reading it . ",4
"Liked this novel very much . Maybe it 's because I am olde and can remember Circuses like the one depicted . Where I came from upstate New York it was a true portrayal of the circus coming to town in the 1930's.Would definitely recommend the book to others . ",4
"Loved this book ! Very cool and original book great read ! As always very happy with the customer service and the product ! ",4
"I 'm just not the type to enjoy this sort of storyline . This was my fault for taking a flyer on something that was in the movies which I never saw and wanted to skip Hollywood for the story directly . Could n't finish it not for me . But saved me from seeing the screenplay . ",0
"Water For Elephants is a human story filled with the drama of raw human living . The cover invites you to step right up and look at the shadow side . The title is a subject that the narrator Jacob knows far more about than anyone else having spent years on a circus train . So even the title points to the inyourface flavor of the story . The characters walk into the story from the rough years of the Great Depression . They all point to the darker side of our nature while they put on a show that denies the fact . Here we find true grit the smell of alcohol the sight of blood the sound of rage the feelings of frustration.The plot includes people who grit their teeth and bear the pain . Jacob becomes addicted to his pain through the years . August struggles with mental illness . Marlena presses on in a marriage she does n't want . A dwarf ekes out a difficult living in a world of rejection . The big boss pushes on to maintain that his world is composed of suckers born every minute . The animals too also bear hardship and abuse from supposed caretakers.The story is energized by a foretaste of rebellion against the oppressive power . This early glimpse kept me moving through the whole story . Note that this is not a happy story . You 're not going to read Winnie the Pooh . Sara Gruen finds a silver thread of redemption in the midst of dark clouds in Jacob albeit a painful thread . It sticks like a tattoo through the years making Jacob what he is in his nineties still swinging his fists at enemies long gone . He is isolated and to battle loneliness takes the only path at the end of the story that he knows.I guess all I wanted was a happier ending . ",3
"This wonderful book shot through the family like water through an elephant 's trunk as my father my wife and I all read it in the space of two weeks . Gruen writes the most enjoyable kind of historical fiction focused on a fascinating time and setting that the reader probably knew next to nothing about before starting the book . In this case the scene is the American traveling circus of the early 1930 's just after the start of the Depression . The protagonist operates in two time periods as a nonagenarian in a current day assisted living facility and flashing back to his days as a young veterinary student who due to circumstances beyond his control ends up serving as the vet for a traveling circus . Gruen intended to imagine various vignettes for the book but in her research and interviews with circus veterans discovered stories from real life that were even bettera reallife case of truth being stranger than fiction . The assisted living facility is inevitably less interesting than the world of freaks and geeks in a circus but Gruen handles the voice of the aged just as deftly as that of the young vet . The book is enhanced by actual pictures from various circus archives . Not an especially profound book Water For Elephants still gets a fivestar rating for all readers for readability and Gruen 's ability to evoke an interesting place and time so well along with a surprising and touching albeit a little farfetched ending . ",4
"Water for Elephants A Novel by Sara Gruen was an outstandingly wellwritten story . It transports readers to the depression years where ablebodied men wandered the country aimlessly looking for work and taking any menial job offered so they could eat . In Gruen 's novel a traveling circus prayed on the desperation of these men used them and then discarded them . The men in charge of this circus treated their performers both human and animal with slightly more care as long as they attracted rubes the gullible public . The story is told through the eyes of Jacob Jankowski a ninetyyear old man committed to a nursing home by his grown alsoaging children . He delves into his memory bank when a circus sets up nearby . His recollections of being a vet with the traveling circus are vivid poignant and disturbing . So are the scenes of Jacob 's life in the nursing home . Gruen skillfully interweaves tales from his past with the present . She probes our conscience about care for our elderly and our animals . Although the book is not for the squeamish in the end she gives us hope.For what it 's worthD . A. Welch ",4
"Following the main character in his twenties and in his nineties was very engaging . There were some points where scenes were brushed over but they usually involved violence to animals or people so it 's probably just as well . I loved listening to it rather than reading it because it made it come alive . ",4
"Amazing book ! ! Starts off slowly and snowballs into a fabulous tale you wo n't be disappointed ! ! ",4
"Alright so I saw the preview for the movie Water for Elephants . The movie preview looks great . To be honest I read reviews about this book and I had considered buying it at the store for some time but thought it was a read I could do without . However I am one of those people that usually has to read the book before seeing the movie . Water for Elephants is not a book I will remember for a long time and will be telling my friends about . The story lacked a lot of oomph and I did n't care for all of the sex . I will be trusting my instincts on books after this . I mean movies usually differ a lot from the novel anyway right ? I will give Water for Elephants this it was sweet concerning the elderly . I have a soft spot for the elderly they 've lived a full life and I found myself more intrigued with the older Jacob Jankowski than the younger Jacob Jankowski . I also felt as though Water for Elephants was n't finished in some areas . I like closure unless it is a series which this clearly is not a part of . ",2
"This is an excellent story and exceptionally well written . Do yourself a favor and read it it is outstanding ! Water for Elephants A Novel ",4
"I loved this book from page one ! Obviously much research was done by the author as the descriptions of circus life during the depression are very realistic believable mundane and exciting . There were times I choked up times I laughed outloud and times I was simply entertained by the descriptions of aging . Would highly recommend . This was a book I did not want to put down and was saddened when it endedI wanted to continue reading about Jacob . ",4
"The hardship of a young man after the death of his parents and what a man endures for the love of a woman . ",4
"I wo n't try to tell you what this book is about.there are many other reviews here that can do that much better than I can.I just want to let you know how it made me feel.I had the miraculous privilege of growing up with all of our ole folk . Both sets of my greatgrandparents lived well into their 90 's . For anyone who had this kind of wonder in their lives you know what a blessing that was.and for those who didn't..well my heart aches for your not knowing what you missed . Watching and listening to in particular my Granddad E. was both heart breaking and fabulous ! His mind was sharp and exact till the endeven though sometimes his physical self did n't follow suit the way he thought it should . Even with all of the frustration that came with getting older and losing control of parts of his life he always had advice to give and stories to tell . I would stay up at the barn with him all through the summer days helping him work on his projects while he explained to me how to tell when a snake was venomous or showing me how to brush the horses out at the end of the day because no matter how tired you wherethey had worked harder . I am filled with memories of sitting and listening to him telling tales of when he was in his 20 's and 30 's and what they all did to get by during the depression . He also made sure I knew how wonderful it was to get sit out in the field you 'd been working in all day and eat your fill of the melons that were being harvested . Reading this book was like sitting in that barn all of those years ago listening to this man that I love so much tell me about a world that we ca n't even imagine while he showed me the right way to do things in the world that I lived in now.Reading this book was like spending those summers with my Granddad . Sara Gruen made me feel the train swaying as it ran through the night and let me smell the smell of the animals as they stood in the heat of the day waiting to be tended to . She let me cry over the hardship of the lives that these poor men and women lived then let me feel the excitement of hearing the music start up for the shows . She had my stomach aching for want of a bite to eatto then have my mouth water when the flag finally went up over the cook tent . Of all of the books that I 've ever read Water for Elephants ranks high up in the ones that made me forget myself and drift into the world that had been put down in the pages.While pregnant with my oldest son I helped care for my Granddad and as he had been an enthusiastic reader most of his lifewhen his eye sight began to fail I read to him . I wish I 'd had this book to read to him . He would have been as lost to it 's wonder as I have been these last two day..Mrs. Gruen.amazing . Simply amazing . ",4
"After reading in book reviews in the newspaper that this was a good book I bought the audio version unabridged.It started slow the character 93 years old . I wondered if it would pickup and it didwhen the same character went back to being in college . It took longer to set the stage than I expected but the book kept me listening all the way to the end . And even though I liked the younger character betterit was much more interesting than listening to the older character it ended with the older gengleman . It was a surprising unexpected ending that made it all the more worthwhile for waiting for it.The setting was a seedy travelling circus set in the Depression era in the US . Some parts were sad the disposable people to the circus owners and the treatment at times of the animals . The reader brought it all togetherthe main character and I truly enjoyed this booknot one I would normally be intersted in or buy.I might have been able to skim by the slow parts if the book were in paper form not audio or if the chapters were shorter in the audio book . That was my only complaint in this book . SOme things were drawn out too much.It was a sad happy story but unlike Oprah 's books good prevailed overall and the majority of the timein the story and in the ending . It was a hard time for America and for the small time travelling circus and those who lived that life . It 's a good read . I might have enjoyed it more in hardback then the 93year old voice and pace would not have grated on me so much or dragged so much else I would give it a 4star but not 5it has some slow parts that drag it out too much . ",2
"This novel is a rambling disjointed and thoroughly annoying depiction of a highly forgettable era in Amercan history . The characters are flimsy the plot is circuitous and the endless stories of animal cruelty are downright depressing . Perhaps the one saving grace is the author 's use of Jacob 's character as an elderly man who is looking back on his life with hindsight . I can not believe there has been such a fuss about this book and that someone was foolish enough to make it into a film . Now that will be a real flop ! If I ever see this author 's name again I will move away from it as quickly as I am able . This was just a terrible book . ",0
"There are so many things to rave about when it comes to Sara Gruen 's novel.First it 's a period piece which I love set in DepressionEra America that gets all of the details just right it 's gritty truthful and unsentimental yet still fascinating and entertaining . I was amazed and enlightened by all of the details of an early20th century circus and all of its inner workings.Secondly the novel is told from two different perspectives . One is a 23yearold Jacob Jankowski who is an ivyleage educated animal doc and recently orphaned while the other perspective is a 90or 93yearold Jacob whose days are spent in a nursing home longing for the days of his youth . Both perspectives are equally compelling and entertaining and they come together to reveal mysteries about the story in the end.Speaking of mysteries I loved that there was a twist that totally caught me off guard in the end . These always make for great pleasures if done right and Gruen 's surprise delivers a punch at the end that I was n't even looking for.I already am waiting for the mention of film rights to this one . It screams movie all the way through . Not just because of the amazing story and characters but also for the potentially incredible set design costume design and stunning visuals . The elderly Jacob would be a great role for someone in the winter of their years and the flashbacks between then and now just yearns to be filmed.Finally the characters in this book sold me . Every one of them is a real treat . As you might imagine the characters in a circus are well real characters and those from The Benzini Brothers circus is no exception . Jacob upon accidentally joining this troupe discovers real evil unlikely friendships and the love of his life . The characters are not exaggerations or caricatures like another unnamed circus novel I have read . These people are empathetic realistic funny and fascinating creations you wo n't soon forget.Get a copy of this novcl today . You 'll be rooting for Jacob Jankowski all the way . ",4
"I just finished reading this and I expect it will be the best book of fiction that I read this year . I usually buy a book for Christmas each year for a friend and an elderly aunt . This is the book for 2007 ! My only disappointment is that Sara Gruen does not have a long list of other books for me to read . I also loved the photos that were at the beginning of the chapters . Sara Gruen is going to the top of the list of my favorite authors ! ! ",4
"I did n't want this book to ever end ! I thoroughly fell in love with Jacob . Sigh . ",4
"Absolutely loved it ! Could n't putit down til the end . Always wanted to see the movie but now am glad I read the book instead ",4
"There are endless ways to sing the praises of this novel of one man 's surreal life in a circus . Water for Elephants ranks as one of the top five books on my list of best and most shocking endings . I just did n't see that ending coming . I gasped when I learned the truth . Water for Elephants is a haunting story . ",4
"This book was thoroughly enjoyable . It was a bit edgy in parts and certainly gut wrenching in others not unlike Grapes of Wrath in feel but although well written it is not in the calibre of Steinbeck . On that note though one is n't always im a Steinbeck type of mood . If you like pathos uncertainty about how things will pan out and history without the whitewash this is a book you will like . If you like a well written crafted novel as well you will love this . ",3
"Set in the Great Depression Water for Elephants is a compelling tale perfect for a book group discussion . Jacob Jankowski loses his parents in a car wreck and drops out of veterinary school . He finds his way aboard a circus train and begins a new life on the road . He meets and falls in love with both circus star Marlena who is married to the perverse animal trainer August and the seemingly unteachable elephant Rosie.I was most taken by the circus details and the details from the Great Depression that Gruen used in the story . I was fascinated with life in the circus during those hard times . I also liked how Gruen moved the story back and forth in time from an elderly Jacob to a young Jacob . ",3
"This was a wonderful book . This is a must read . The author did an amazing job flashing back and forth from present to past . You wo n't be able to put it down ! ",4
"I did n't expect to like it had n't heard anything about was reading it as a duty for a book club . Boy was I surprised ! Had to stay up til midnight on a work dayto finish it once I 'd started it . Got totally involved with the story . Loved the style . ",4
"Fascinating story of growth witth very unique unforgetable chararcters . It exposes the dark side of human nature compared with the unconditional love of the animals . ",4
"Water for Elephants is the definitive novel on love and compassion in the midst of unspeakable pain and despair . It is on my list of five best and most unexpected endings mainly for the secret that Jacob keeps his whole life . There are so many incredible little secrets about life in this book just waiting to be discovered . The plot is riveting . It 's an incredibly fast read and it is truly as magical as a circus . ",4
"At some points during this book I wondered why it had made so many yearend best lists . Once I had finished it I knew the answer . Water for Elephants is the first book I 've read in ages that was capably resolved and concluded . The satisfying ending made the rest of the book begin to shimmer and I found myself thinking about the main character and his way of relating with others long after I 'd closed the book . ",3
"Everyone should read this book . It not only is a love story but opened up the world of the traveling circus making me aware of how brutal their life could be . ",4
"As much as I wanted to really like this book I felt that it failed on several levels . I will say that the circus atmosphere was conveyed with incredible and apparently accurate detail and I was impressed by that . I could see and even smell everything and the book movingly conveyed how desperate times led to desperate people clinging to even the most degrading employment with a third rate circus . However the characters seemed to be straight out of a romance novel with the exception of oldeven he 's not sure how old he isJacob who was funny disarming feisty and touching whereas the young Jacob was pretty vanilla too obviously a nice guy with little personality . In contrast Old Jacob 's voice was so clear and true and I really cared about himhe was funny and sad his memories bittersweet his longings compelling . I also liked but who did n't ? Rosie the elephant who had twice the personality of anyone else in the fleabag circus with the exception perhaps of Walter the dwarf . The plot depended on coincidences that I had problems believing and I found myself caring more about the animals which I admit is n't unusual for me ! than I did about any of the people . However I 'd heartily recommend this book to anyone who enjoys sentimental stories who loves happy pat endings who does n't necessarily want a book to convey great ideas but who is touched more by the romance rather than the writing . Those of you will as have many others it appears love this book . There is certainly nothing wrong with that it 's just that those kinds of books are simply not what I prefer to read . This book might actually make a good movie and I 'd be surprised if Hollywood has n't snatched it up already . ",2
"This is such a great story such a wonderful wonderful story ! I loved every word and every image painted in my head . This is not a predictable little book it is awesome ! ",4
"Great Book Keeps you guessing until the end . Several people and animals in this book to root for . Love story is interwoven in the Circus World . ",3
"This is one of my alltime favorites ! For some reason I put off reading this book for months . I tried to convince myself that it did n't look interesting . Was I ever wrong ! This will stay in my house I will not trade or sell it or loan it out . It 's that good ! Reading the author 's notes I discovered it was based on the the Biblical story of Jacob . Then I had to read it all over again ! And I still loved it ! ",4
"If you saw the movie that goes with this book the movie does n't do it justice . I thought it was a really good book and enjoyed it much more than the movie . ",4
"I thought this was an interesting read until the author decided to label the villian of the piece as a paranoid schizophrenic . August was cruel sadistic and had violent mood swings . None of these are symptoms of schizophrenia . He did not hear voices have complicated delusions or an inability to keep touch with reality . Unlike most unmedicated schizophenics August had no trouble thinking rationally or logically on the contrary he was in charge of a large section of the circus and exhibited fine organizational skills ! The writer could simply have portrayed her character August as a jealous violent man but instead she chose to advance the false stigma that people with schizophrenia are horribly cruel and violent or that they have a split personality . If only Gruen had researched psychiatry as well as she had the circus.I work with people who suffer from this disease . While without medication the patients delusions might possibly rarely lead them to do something violent it 's usually in relationship to fear associated with a delusion thinking a person is really an alien from outerspace for example . Never the sort of coldblooded violence August engaged in . August always knew exactly who or what he was hurting.When medicated people with schizophrenia are actually less likely to commit violent acts than the general population.It 's truly a shame when a popular book spreads stigma in this manner the negative ripple effects go on and on . ",0
"Water for Elephants begins a bit slowly . I recommended it to many people and they always said I had trouble getting into it . I encouraged them to continue on and nobody was disappointed.I felt it was the best ending of any book I have EVER read . When I got to the last few pages I literally said out loud YES ! That 's EXACTLY how this story should have ended.Do n't pass this one up . It is an excellent book . ",4
"This was a great story line but I really get disgusted with the writers that think they have a free license to use the Lord 's name in vain . It has become a disgusting passtime and all too prevalent thing to do . And why do they do it ? It adds nothing to the story . Just a disgusted feeling and sorrorful feeling for the author . It shows how the people of the world are falling away from God . That is one thing I miss with my Kindle I always use a black marker and mark out that word from the sentences or stop reading the book altogether . ",1
"I thoroughly enjoyed this book . I loved how Sara switched between an elderly Jacob and the young Jacob . I was never bored and found it very interesting . To the reviewer who said X RIDICULOUS ! It 's a NOVEL . I found nothing offensive in fact some situations were authentically told from the male perspective by a female writer ! . A good summer read for me ! ",3
"Water for Elephants Algonquin Books 2007 $ 8.37Sara Gruen ISBN 1565125606I started taking steps one foot at a time . My feet of course . The circus tent was getting closer and I could hear the music . These are the words of Jacob Jakowski in the book water for elephants . Jacob was in veterinarian school but before the final exam his parents were brutally killed in a car crash . As if that was not devastating enough Jacob later found out that his parents had been accepting corn and other food items and had put up a 2nd mortgage on their house just so he could through his final year in vet school . During his final exam his hands were shaking and he could not concentrate . He ran out of the room and jumped onto a train that by chance belonged to the Beninzi Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth ! His life is changed in an instant and his world seems to be surrounded by good and evil.The book is based in the 1930s during the great depression A time . I would recommend this book for those who love realistic fiction . I have no doubt in my mind that this book is one of the best books of the year ! Jace McBride ",3
"Ninetythreeyearold Jacob Jankowski an unhappy resident of a nursing home reminisces about his life with the traveling train circus Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth during the Great Depression . In and out of a small town usually an overnight the performers and working men put on a show that involves animals freaks the dwarf and the fat lady the clowns and all manner of circus act entertainment including a tent just for gentlemen and other delights.Jacob 's parents died just as he was about to write his final exams in veterinary school at Cornell University . Because of the hard economic times his parents mortgaged everything to pay his tuition and thus he was left griefstricken AND penniless . He ends up joining the Benzini Brothers by an accident of good timing and because of his vet training he ends up hired on to care for the horses and other animals . Along the way the circus owner purchases an elephant named Rosie she becomes a special part of this story.Author Sara Gruen weaves a tale of hooking the rubes into coming to the show secondrate performances that managed to wow the audiences boozy nights infighting among those with the train backbreaking work and other fascinating details of the traveling circus . Jacob quickly assimilates into the hard life and makes the mistake of falling in love with Marlena one of the performers who has a sadistic husband . Not only cruel to his wife August also beats and mistreats the animals . What will become of Jacob and the rest of the members of this group of misfits outcasts and showmen ? Readers will savor the story and applaud the somewhat maudlin ending . I read it quickly and found it very sweet and entertaining recommended for teens and adults . Enjoy ! Caveat there are descriptions of mistreatment and abuse of animals in this book . If that is unpalatable to you you should skip this book . ",3
"Had not gotten around to reading the book when I had the opportunity to see the movie . I doubt I 'll ever bother to read this one . Wasted money on it too as most of my downloaded books are free . Choose wisely . ",1
"Loved the premise loved the characters loved the descriptions loved the time period and as a child loved the circus . After reading this book the circus never looked quite the same . A great story filled with historical detail romance mystery animal crueltyyou name it this great read covered it . ",4
"This is an outstanding novel . One can get a greater appreciation for the 1930 's after reading this book . It is also a great love story . I would recommend to anyone . ",3
"No spoilersI picked up Water for Elephants on whim in the bookstore while waiting for another book to be mailed to me from an Amazon marketplace seller . It had been recommended to me both by Amazon and by people I know but I never gave it much thought because I 'm not really a fan of the circus but having just finished it in a day and half I am very glad I picked it up.Others have summarized the book sufficiently so I wo n't go there but I will say that from the prologue to the last page you are invested in this book and the characters and care what happens to them . The story is told by the main character in his nineties who is in a nursing home looking back on his life and how he got to where he is . The prologue is of the climactic event in his life in the circus and then the rest of the book alternates every few chapters between his first hand accounts in the present in the nursing home and his first hand accounts in the past as a youth in the circus . The scenes from the present in the nursing home force you to sympathize with a man whose body is old but who is mind is young and the struggles associated with such a circumstance while the scenes from the past in the circus are a window into the past that show you who this man used to be.This book had a captivating beginning and satisfying ending but my only problem and the singular reason I did n't give it five stars was that in the middle the story was just a tad slow . However do n't let that discourage you from reading it because as you can see from my title that only warranted a halfstar reduction from me because this really is a great read as a whole whether you love or hate the circus and I recommend it fullheartedly to lovers of a good story.PS For a novel with a completely different plot but with similar execution telling the story by alternating between present and past and a fantastic fivestar story try Setterfield 's The Thirteenth Tale . ",3
"I had this book recommended to me ! And to that I say thank you ! I know the movie is supposed to be good but the book is fantastic . I now need to see if the movie compares . I did n't think I would enjoy jumping back and forth from past to present but it fit the writing perfectly . I could n't put it down and just wanted to know everything about Jacob . I felt like I was on the train with them ! ",4
"This book was great but very different from what I normally read . With that being said I really enjoyed it ! Some of the parts involving the animals disturbed me I 'm a total animal lover but I had to remind myself that that was reality back then and despite those parts I really loved it . Rosie was by far my favorite character and the ending was great . I hope the movie does n't butcher this beautiful story . ",4
"I have no idea what the hoopla is about but I find this book to be just alright at best . It is a little slow . The characters didnt have any passion or oomph . It was just very blah to me . I do like Reese Witherspoon and Rob so maybe the movie will be more entertaining . ",1
"This was ordered for my sisters book club . Not sure how the book was as I never read it since it was for a gift . ",4
"The reviews of Water for the Elephants suggest that this book should be one of your best reads . Well it is if you can get through the first fourth of the book . If you do you will be greatly rewarded . Everyone in our bookclub thoroughly enjoyed the story and it provided us a mountain of discussion that just went on and on . I would definitely recommend it as a bookclub choice for both men and women . ",3
"I totally enjoyed the book . It seems that everyone that reads it gets something different from it a love story an animal rights story a human right story etc . ",4
"This is a wonderfully poignant book that slides seamlessly between the 90 Plus year old Jacob and his remembrances of his youth when he was 23 and spent time with a traveling circus as its Veterinarian . The frailities of Jacob who is now in the Nursing Home is portrayed so realistically that it almost seems like those parts of the story are actually written by an old person . In counterpoint the story of the younger Jacob 's traveling circus adventures seems the same way as if the author has actually experienced this lifestyle . With twists and turns heart melting moments of happiness heartwrenching moments of anger and sadness this book is one that once started is hard to put down . You 'll be glad you chose this book to read . ",4
"This is the best book I 've read in years I could n't Put it down It heald my interest so well . ",4
"I really liked this book . The first chapter I was not sure but kept my interest . I would have given ti 5 stars but I thought it was too short . ",3
"DO N'T read this book if you 're a sensitive soul with a love for animals . You 'll likely find it very depressing . ",1
"The story line kept my interest but at times I considered not finishing it because it disturbed me . As it progressed I begun to dislike the main character . Then I read the interview with the author at the end of the book and found that it was her intention to portray our hero with all the flaws . I guess my ideal is a comic book hero . ",3
"Loved this book ! A great story and insight into the time period and life during those times . Highly recommend this book ",2
"I loved this book . Throughout I felt like I was actually at this circus . I felt like I could smell the popcorn . I felt like I could hear the sounds of the animals the train leaving in the night or the audience expressing their delight . I really could not put the book down because I had to know what happened next . Very good . ",4
"What a wonderful story.Well written ! So many details make you really envision the whole story.Definitely a great read . Highly recommend it ! ",4
"One day I was surfing Amazon looking for a good read . There are times when I 'm looking for something different that I just go with a good title . Sometimes I 'm pleasantly surprised other times I 'm not . This was a pleasant surprise . I 'd never heard of the book or the author so I came in on a clean slate . It was a wonderful read one of those books you hate to put down for mundane things such as work and sleep . I was instantly hooked on the main character Jake and the life he led . Sad in spots dark and violent in some places bittersweet at times it was one of those stories that pulled me right in and made it hard to say goodbye when it was over . ",4
"Loved this book . It is a wonderful love story . It gave me an idea of what goes on in an older persons mind . ",4
"I did n't want to like this book but I stuck with it and it drew me in . There 's a great twist at the end something you thought was one situation ends up being quite another indeed that somehow redeems the whole thing . Delightful ending.I recommend this as a light summer reader . ",3
"I am not real sure what I expected going into this book more of a romance chick book I guess . I do n't really like romance books all that much so it was awhile before I actually read this book but wishing now I had read it sooner ! It was NOTHING like I thought it was going to be at all ! This book is about a 93 year old man in a assistant living home that is recalling the time he spent in the circus as a young man after his parents got killed in a car accident . I was really expecting it to be more happy upbeat book about the circus but there was very little happy in this book ! Some parts were so hard to read and I had to keep myself reading not because the writing was bad or the book was bad but because some parts were just heart wrenching that it was hard to read without crying or at least on the verge of it or wanting to go and kill August ! The writing was amazing the author has amazing talents and I never expected the ending ! I was actually fairly pissed off when Jacob did n't get to go to the circus and was thinking that I was going to be pretty upset with the ending but it caught me off guard and I ended the book smiling and crying at the same time.Amazing book read it ! ",4
"I have read a bunch of novels recently that kept me engrossed for the first 7080 % and then faded badly . Water for Elephants is worth reading right to the satisfying ending . It is very well paced and has interesting twists and all the characters seemed real to me.I had never considered the 1930 's touring circus as a basis for writing a novel . Now I want to learn more about it . That 's because Gruen does such a nice job describing it . The characters and the animals ! are very human and I think she captures the time they lived in quite well . I am impressed that there are over 1000 reviews and still more coming for a book that 's been out now for over 4 years . It speaks to some of the universal qualities that appealed to me and perhaps other readers . The lead character is interesting he 's human and he has reflected on a life well lead while yearning for more . I see a little bit of my father in there ! One thing I am always looking for is how well a writer can give voice to a character that is so different from him or herself . Ms Gruen as a modern woman writing in the first person a man in the 1930 's does very well in making Jacob a believable character . The writing is tight swift and it was a pleasure to read . ",4
"I love the way this book ended . This was the best ending I have experienced in a long time . The story is gripping and a pleasure to read . At times I could not put it down the need to know what was going to happen next was thoroughly enjoyable . ",4
"I just finished reading Water for Elephants and I really enjoyed it . It 's a love story and so much more . The author conjured up images so sharp and clear that I often thought of the classic movie The Greatest Show on Earth directed by Cecil B. DeMille . The characters were wellfleshed and it was obvious from the beginning who was the 'hero ' and who was the 'villain ' both vying for the beautiful heroine . And then there was a secondary story set in present day that was artfully woven among the vintage circus story . I really enjoyed this book . The author did a fabulous job of drawing in the reader and I found myself longing for bedtime my reading time & ltg > . I know this book has been optioned for a movie and I do hope the director does the book justice . ",4
"The Carnival life is n't easy . Being chucked off the rails the mistreatment of animals . This story though brings the Carnival life to life . The ending was beautiful . So masterfully done . The book was so much better than the movie . If you have not seen the movie which by now I am sure you have read the book you feel each and every character like it were you . ",4
"For several years various animal rights organizations have campaigned against circuses citing the cruelty inflicted upon animals . Gruen shows how cruelty permeated the institution.This is a wonderful novel about love and decadence greed and control and cruelty and tenderness . It starts weakly where the protagonist discovers his parents were killed in a freak traffic accident . He hops a train and winds up working for a circus . But do n't despair I promise it 's worth finishing.Gruen 's characters are vividly drawn . Hierarchies amongst performers workers and management prevail . Descriptions are so vivid you can almost smell the hay and everything else so accurately described.This is a wonderful window into life in a circus with all it 's horrors and despite them it 's draw.Well done ! ",4
"Excellent book the way it is written and what you get out of the book.Would recommend this book highly . ",4
"What a great novel . Could not put it down . I could picture everything as described . The author really did her homework . Did not see the movie but do not think it can be as good as the book . ",4
"First as the title of my review implies I did enjoy this book and I would recommend this book.In a nutshell it was a good story put together well well told easily read with a good ending . Nothing wrong there but that 's as far as it takes the reader.To those of you going into this book expecting the next great american novel or the best book you ever read as I have seen more than a few describe it in other reviews um.. no . Not even close.I think all the reviews and even the critics reviews have done this otherwise very good book an injustice . You will not find wisdom in it 's pages nor will you laughcryetc at least I didn't.So if you go into reading this book with the expectation of a good read you wo n't be dissapointed . If your looking for something special I just did n't find it in this book.In the end my criticism is n't with this book but all the incorrect accolades poured upon it . ",3
"I love the novel Water for Elephants . It is the exciting tale of a young veterinary student who ends up working for a thirdrate somewhat corrupt traveling circus . He cares for the circus animals while encountering danger episodes of animal cruelty violence and romance . It is a heartpounding and endearing tale told mostly in flashback . The characters are largerthanlife from the cruel circus owner to the sideshow freaks to the bawdy young ladies who perform for the grinning men both onstage and off . I just loved this book from start to finish . And for those of you who have seen the film the book has much more action and less focus on the romantic angle . An actionpacked colorful story . I could not put it down . ",4
"This is one of the best books I 've read in years . Well researched terrifically written ! ! An unusual little documented slice of American History . HOORAY ! ! ",4
"This book takes you on an adventure about life . My girlfriend the book worm read this twice before I had a chance to read it . Now that I have read it I know why . Captivating from beginning to end . I would recommend this book for anyone who wants to go on a circus adventure . ",4
"I 'm trying to hold back and be nice remembering I just finished rereading The Great Gatsby and there 's not much that can compare to that ! Overall I liked the book . I found the depiction of circus and railroad life during the depression very interesting . It appeared that the author did some in depth research . The flashback technique between the circus and the nursing home however left me flat . I did not feel that the nursing home chapters were of the same quality as the circus chapters and frankly rushed through them to get back to the real story . If anyone starts the book however keep going as the ending is well done.My disappointment in this book came from the author 's handling of important thematic materials . The scene was set for so many important and universal statements and the author simply threw them away . So much could have been written about class structure disability awareness capitalism fairness in advertising care of the elderly animal rights etc . and nothing came forth . There was no symbolism or connections to classic themes and I sure missed the place where the main character was equated with the biblical Jacob . Those efforts would have made the difference between a book that will last and one that wo n't be remembered in ten years . ",3
"I LOVED this book ! It takes me awhile to read a book due to lack of time but I could n't wait to pick this up at every opportunity possible . Great story wonderful detail and the type of book where you felt like you were on the sidelines watching . ",4
"OK I admit it . I really liked this book . My wife was shocked that I wanted to read it but she had loved it so much I thought I would give it a try . It is such an interesting story . You can tell it was well researched as it truly brings to life the way circus people lived nearly 100 years ago.The characters are memorable . You really feel that you know Jacob and all the performers in the Benzini Brothers Circus . The story revolves around a love triangle all set within the context of the depression and circus life . This does not come across at all like a romance novel . The story is wellcrafted and keeps the reader 's interest . All key items I look for in a book . There were a few fights intermingled to keep my sense of action adventure happy too.Proso well researched depression era circus lifeo wonderful characters who you grow to know and loveo full telling of story you do n't feel like anything was left outConso none big enough to comment onOverall I highly recommend this book . A great American novel . ",4
"It was a time when I judged a book by it 's cover which I am told to never do . I am so glad that I read this book . It has stuck with me since I finished it and it is a book that I will read again and again . ",4
"This novel is a beautiful love story surrounded by a fascinating spectacle . It goes without saying that if you are a circus lover you will really enjoy reading this book . Sara Gruen provokes tears smiles and sighs along with other emotional reactions from the reader by encompassing circus life without failing to include any heart wrenching details . I highly recommend this book to anyone looking to go on a circus adventure and test the resilience of love . ",3
"Wow 1696 reviews to date ! Oprah 's recommendation really can motivate a lot of women with time on their hands LOL ! I wo n't even bother to read the 5star reviews because I 'll probably agree with all the specifics about what a good book this is . It has colorful wellfleshed out characters with only a few cardboard stereotypes great sense of historical and circus detail and a neat surprise ending.The trouble is this does not belong up there with some great recent innovative works the true 5stars like Memoirs of a Geisha or The Kite Runner . One thing they all have in common is introducing us to a foreign or unfamiliar world in this case the depressionera circus . But those other two books have a depth of soul and a more comprehensive worldview than Water for Elephants.I was also disappointed with a big loose thread in the plot where Camel was to be reunited with his son and the reader was set for that pivotal event only to be let down and shortcircuited by the surprise ending.You will definitely enjoy this book and be enlightened to learn more about life during the Depression but keep it in perspective let 's not give standing ovations for every good show . ",3
"One of the Stern Librarian 's great challenges is to get patrons who say they do n't like novels to read them . Water for Elephants is the novel I will now be pressing on those people who say they only like reading history or biography rather than fiction . Although readers will get lost in the invented world in this book they will also learn a great deal of real facts about the Depression train circuses and animal behavior along the way . And they will feel the plight of Americans in the grip of economic panic in ways that most history books can not convey . Photographs at the beginning of most chapters both illustrate the plot and confirm that most of this unbelievable story really did happen . I particularly loved learning about the mechanics of circuses how they were set up taken down how the crowd was shaken for every last nickel how they performers and animals were fed and housed . The paperback edition contains an interview with the author and other notes that describe the research that went into the book and reveal that a few of the more amazing events in the novel actually occurred . As if the glamour of old circuses were n't enough this book also contains a second story set in present day about an elderly man in a nursing home . Many readers have told me that they take to this old man 's voice like elephants to lemonade . The Stern Librarian I work for peanuts too . ",4
"I was born in 1920 . I grew up during the Great Depression and the Prohibition eras.In 1965 we owned a bait and tackle shop in Venice Florida . At that time the Ringling Bros . Circus wintered there and we became acquainted with many circus people . Our shop was a hangout for them and every evening after rehearsals they would stop by for a beer.The book Water for Elephants is extremely well written and I am planning to read more of Sara Gruen 's work.I have ordered two more copies and given them to friends . They have given me very good reports . ",4
"I have strongly mixed feelings about _Water for Elephants_ . The alternating story between the daily life of a 90ish year old man and his cantankerous behaviour with his youth as a circus vet kept my attention the details about the social heirarchy between members of the circus was on the authority of a former circus roustabout friend of mine accurate and I have to admit I am a sucker for a love story . However as previous reviewers have noted the 1930 's vernacular and the mannerisms of men of that era were abhorrent but then I am a stickler for these kinds of detail.The story of a Cornell vet student who quits his final exams before graduation to join the circus and his subsequent adventures and love story has undoubtedly caught the imagination of the vast majority of Amazon reviewers including myself . Yet I deduct a star because of the lack of attention to detail regarding the male protagonists and the verbage of the time . For most readers this apparently is n't an issue in which case I would stronlgy recommend it.As far as breezy summer reads go this certainly fits the bill who has n't fantasized about running off with the circus ? Happily oblivious to the hard work long hours and mediocre pay Which among us does n't dream or has n't dreamed of finding your soulmate on such an adventure ? Recommended particularly for the romantics among us . ",3
"This is a super book about a very interesting subject . Great well written story about the Circus world and its seamier side . Sometimes gritty but interesting all the way through . one of my alltime favorites . ",4
"A friend loaned me her copy even knowing that this is n't my normal genre . I kept it for several weeks on the shelf and finally I decided that I should read it . I am so glad I did ! I thoroughly enjoyed this book . This book took me to another place and time and it felt that I was right beside the main character as he was going through his journey . ",4
"Decided to read this after seeing the movie which I enjoyed . I highly recommend the book as worthwhile to read . ",3
"This book was a bestseller but in case you missed it it 's not too late . That 's the thing about a great book it never gets old . Read this if you have n't already . ",4
"This book was a very easy read . Loved the story line . It was great to be able to purchase kindle edition . ",4
"Almost every child has dreamed about running away to join the circus . In the days of the big top there were lots of menial jobs that kept those who wanted to be part of the circus busy from before dawn into late into the night even if those jobs often involved nothing more glamorous than shoveling up the remains of an elephant 's snack.Water for Elephants starts with an elderly at least 90 years old Jacob Jankowski remembering snatches of his past as he frets over the indignities of living in a nursing home while his children ignore him except for token rotating visits on Sundays . One memory in particular stands out a violent memory that he did n't share with anyone for over 70 years.Most of the book moves through flashback into the 1930s when America was broke and people were starving . Into this challenging world Jacob has high expectations as he finishes up his veterinary training at Cornell . But the hand of God intervenes and his life will never be the same.He soon finds himself serving in any role that he can get at BENZINI BROS MOST SPECTACULAR SHOW ON EARTH as the rail cars read . This is n't the big time . It 's just surviving by staying one step ahead of the local sheriffs while not delivering on promised acts and providing entertainment for men that has nothing to do with being a circus . This circus does n't even have an elephant.Much of the story involves the nitty gritty of how circuses operated in those perilous times . It 's a story that encompasses lots of cruelty deceit and harshness . In fact it 's enough to make you wonder why you ever dreamed about running away to join the circus . So if you would like to keep that dream shiny perhaps this would n't be the best book for you to read.At the center of the story are three people and one elephant . Marlena is the queen of the circus the star of the equestrian act that involves first 12 and later 10 horses . She 's married to the volatile August who runs the animal acts . When Jacob becomes involved in caring for the animals Jacob is invited to dine and party with the couple . The relationship becomes more complicated when Jacob finds himself drawn to Marlena and repelled by August . When the circus buys an abandoned elephant that seems unusually stupid the equilibrium is destroyed.Ultimately the book is about responsibility and loyalty . . . qualities that are more important in and taken more seriously by the circus world than by the rubes who attend the circus . The message will serve as yet another indictment of our modern world which favors efficiency over doing the right thing.The book is beautifully illustrated with vintage photographs of early circuses that nicely match the story line of Water for Elephants.Unlike many authors of such historical fiction Sara Gruen does a good job of keeping a few surprises up her sleeve . So do n't quit midbook thinking you know how the story will turn out.Grab a shovel . . . and dig in ! ",4
"I 've had this book on my shelf for a whilethe circus has never really interested mebut it 's been on the bestsellers list for so longit just must be great right ? Well it 's okaybut I 'm convinced it 's the ending that 's leaves readers recommending it to friends . It has a typical Hollywood happy ending.The story prior to the ending is nice enough . It 's pretty short and has a few interesting photos taken from the Ringling archives . I thought the details of the Great Depression were woven niceley into the story and it seemed well researched.That being said I do n't think the story was as deep or detailed as it could have been . Gruen obviously had some rich material at her fingertips . I ca n't help but think she could have done more with it.I also found the constant interjection of Old Man Jacob Jankoski distracting and annoying . Although the parts are wellwritten and movingdefinitely makes me twice about the elderlyHe seems completely unnecesarry to the plot of the novel and I thought his space in the book should have been filled with something elsepreferably the developing romance between Marlena and Jacob.Pluses Cover Research subject manner Walter Kinko The ending . Photos.Cons Characters are dull or overwrought story is eh Old Man Jankowski distracts from circus plot . ",2
"As a prizewinning author myself and a Pulitzer nominee I know good writing . This book was so riveting and fascinating I could n't put it down.In fact it became so real to me that I began to think of it as nonfiction some time after I 'd finished . I had to read these reviews to recollect it is fiction . Having read a great many of the posted reviews I ca n't help noticing the negative or low rated reviews are sneering and superior and critical in the extreme . This is in my experience typical of poor writers who feel compelled to comment scathingly on others ' skills but who are incapable of writing compelling literature themselves . As a professional academic reviewer I strongly disagree with the snide commentary . It is a rare gem . ",4
"I was hesitant to read this book at first because I was concerned about the animal abuse . However Sara Gruen did a wonderful job with keeping it at a minimum . I quickly scanned over one or two of the scenes and then realized when I was done reading the story how the little bit of it added to the story.Well researched and well defined Gruen takes you by the hand and leads you into the life of an elderly man who from a nursing home reflects back on his life in his younger years while he was a part of the circus life . Vivid and captivating I felt as though I was a part of this exciting journey.There are thousands of reviews on this book so I 'll keep mine brief . Clearly stated this is one work that will remain in my memory all the days of my life . Fascinating ! ! ",4
"This review originally appeared on my blog.If you are considering trying audio books I think this would be an excellent one to start with . I loved the narrators they really added something extra to the story . Also this story is meant to be told orally and listening to it really makes it all come to life.I was a bit worried when I decided to listen to this book . I do n't usually like books that involve animals mostly because of the guaranteed heart fail . Not only does this book have animals it is set in a circus . Having worked as a zookeeper I learned some of the not so nice things that happen to circus animals . Then add to it the story is set during the Depression . All of these had me cringing a bit . But who has n't dreamed of running off to the circus ? I was hooked in the first few minutes of the reading . I could tell that it would be a story I would lose myself in . I have to say though I was a little annoyed with the music playing in the background . Particularly with the older narrator as it made it difficult for me to hear him clearly.Oddly enough it was the scenes of the older Jacob that had tears coming to my eyes rather than the animals . It sucks to be old and his story is probably far more common than not . Though I did cringe every time August had a scene with Rosie . I was also a little shocked at the debauchery that took place at a circus today it is such a family event.The descriptive nature of the story had me feeling like I was there at the circus . I could smell the popcorn . hear the cheer of the crowd and when I closed my eyes I was in the menagerie with all the sights and sounds that come with a tent full of animals . More so than any other audio book I 've listened to there was a mini movies running through my mind.I went to see the movie a couple of days after finishing the book . I do n't usually like to see the movie version so soon after finishing a book because the details of the book are so fresh in my mind . But I have to say the movie was so well done that I fell even more in love with the story . The movie left out the parts that I found annoying in the book in particular the back and forth between the old Jacob and young Jacob . I do have to say that I was a tiny bit upset that BoBo was cut from the film . I think he might have been my favorite animal . ",4
"This book left me with a insight into the circus world and wanting to read more and more . I loved the way she incorporated the thoughts of the older character into the story it really makes a person realize how aging feels . I really liked the characters and felt like I knew them personally ! ",4
"This book begins and ends with the main character Jacob Jankowski in his 90 's and residing in a nursing home . He does n't remember how old he is or even the people that take turns coming to visit him . But what he does remember more than makes up for his current state of boredom . The beginning reminded me of Stephen King 's The Green Mile . The author obviously had to do a great deal of research into circus life during the depression in order to write this book . What she found does not make a pleasant story . Being an animal lover the cruelty displayed toward the animals especially Rosie the elephant really disturbed me . I still have a hard time believing that Jacob who had nearly received his degree as a veterinarian and loved Rosie would not have done more to prevent it . The cruelty displayed towards the employees was just as bad . Railroad goons would actually push workers off moving trains in the middle of the night rather than pay them . I thought the affair between Jacob and Marlena was not as torrid as it should have been . Rosie was my favorite character she was described in human terms which made the cruelty more difficult to endure . In the end both the peon workers and Rosie got even . But that was not even the ending that made this book such a great read . I was so excited when I read the ending I had to tell someone about it ! It was the best ending ever ! ! ",3
"With a title like that who would have known how captivated I would be with a circus story . Well I was . ",4
"THIS BOOK WAS VERY WELL WRITTEN AND VERY WELL RESEARCH . I ENJOYED THEINFORMATION ON THE CIRCUS AND THE YEARS OF THE DEPRESSION . SOME OF THENURSING HOME WAS A BIT UNSETTLING . THE MEANEST TO THE ELEPHANT WAS ALSOSOMEWHAT UPSETTING . OVER ALL I WOULD SAY IT WAS AN ENJOYABLE FAST READ . ",3
"Movie was good but does n't compare to the book . Like all good books it was hard to put down . Recommend it . ",4
"This was a book that was recommended to me by a friend . I kept telling him that I really did n't want to read it it did n't sound like something I would like . I WAS SO WRONG ! This was a fabulous book ! I could not put it down ! I highly recommend it ! ",4
"Wonderfully drawn characters brilliant writing and a fascinating setting not often written about in novels . What more could you ask of a book ? ",4
"I have seen this book on the shelves for sometime now and only just got around to reading it . It was so enjoyable that I read it in a day I just could n't put it down . The main character Jacob is intriguing without being over complicated . It is a peek into the history of the circus all the while swirling a great mystery and love affair that will keep you glued to this page turner . I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys historical fiction mysteries and a truly good read . ",4
"Very insightfull into the lives of Carnies . I always sensed their lives must be harsh but never know how much . This book depicts the animaldark side of human nature way boss treated his employees and the Humanbright side of Elephants how loyal and loving they can be . We can learn lots from our 4 legged friends . ",3
"This book was highly recommended to me by women in an assisted living facility where I teach for whom one of the book themesaging and loss of autonomyresonated deeply . I found it an engaging read though the story almost caves in under the weight of the author 's research . The characters are archetypes I had the feeling I 'd seen somewhere before lacking complexity and it was ultimately difficult to care about any of them . The shifts back and forth in time were distracting and superfluous . I felt manipulated by the fantastically sentimental ending but still it made me smile . ",1
"When my two sons were perhaps 6 and 10 I took them to the circus here in Salt Lake City Utah . They were remarkably nonplussed Duh Dad a bear riding a bicycle ? And so going back in time 75 years to get the look and feel of circuses was a lot of fun . Dusty stinky hard work low pay railroads animals escaping fat ladies dwarves clowns all of it . But the heart of the book is the story of Jacob a young veterinarian who has n't yet passed the exam who is pulled out of his orderly life and into the circus world virtually overnight . And suddenly here he is in a different world a young and handsome 23 year old being used and abused by the men and women in this crazy circus subworld.The story is told by Jacob at age 93 and now living in a resthome . Going between old Jacob with nurses clucking about trying to get him to behave and then going back in time telling the circus story reminds me of the old lady 's perspective in the movie The Titanic who is telling the story of young Jack and her life altering romance with him . There 's something about the technique that makes it all seem very real like it 's all in the present.Jacob 's romance with one of the young beautiful circus performers is a touching and believable tale . The hucksterisms of his two bosses who run the circus are also very realistic and an important part of the story . I wo n't give too much away here in case you have n't yet read the book but an elephant named Rosie is also one of the main characters of the book who makes sure things turn out as they 're supposed to.A very fun touching and unique piece of american historical fiction . ",3
"I loved the book . The only thing that keeps me from giving it 5 stars is there are second though necessary that I felt I had to trudge through . ",3
"This book does provide a fairly riveting story set within post depression America and also provides good insights into the circus business during this era . The book balances the dynamics of maintaining a circus in tough economic times against a host of vivid and disparate personalities that can both support and challenge the stability of the circus . For example there is Big Al who runs the circus with a nearly ruthless practicality redlighting individuals who violate his rules . There is August second in command alternately tough and gracious supportive and cruel . There is Jacob the hero who stumbles into the world after fleeing Cornell Vet School and who subsequently falls in love with August 's wife . The book alternates between the young Jacob in the circus and the elderly Jacob in a nursing home . Some of the dialogue the characters use during the depression era sounds like it came from the 21st century but other than that there is a gritty often grotesque and unblinking realism in everything from death to romance . ",3
"No need for a long review hereThis one is definately worth reading . A great storywritten well . Highly recommend ! ",4
"Note on Kindle version A number of minor glitches Typos in some of the latter chapters and the author 's note appeared twice The first was joined to the last sentence unseparated by any spacing this one 's pretty annoying in fact . Other than that reads beautifully the images in between chapters appeared fine and crisp dictionary functions well.Water for Elephants is one of those big entertaining read that is packed with action and wonderful details and of course a love story . From the first few pages there you get a clear sense that the story is just tailor made for the movies . The structure of the narration the intricate period details as well as the classic twists and turn of the plot makes you feel like you are quite literally reading a movie . I could even hear faint soundtrack music in the background as I flipped through the pages ! Jacob Jankowski Ivy League vet science student found himself on the road after his life is turned upside down by a freak accident . He made a fateful jump on a passing train which turned out to a travelling circus . Soon after he finds himself employed as the circus vet and falls head over heels for the star of the troupe Marlena who just happened to be the wife of the schizophrenic head of the menagerie . Then one day an elephant joins the troupe and everything started to unravel.The love story itself is filled with cliches . Young man falls in love with a woman out of his reach thinks his love in unrequited but ca n't help to yearn for her and therefore continues to woe her . And just when he thought his chances are gone she confesses that the feeling 's mutual . Aha what about the evil schizo husband ? Well they go through heaven and hell to escape him and that 's basically it . The love story.And so it 's not a surprise that the characters are not of great depth . Jacob is the naive testosteronebursting young fella who knows what or who he wants but does n't have a clue how to get it . And is showered with luck and good friends to support him . Marlena is the charming damsel in distress and her husband the wicked yet brilliant villain.But all those flaws as great as they seem are overridden by Gruen 's superbly paced and gripping storytelling of a magical world of a bygone era . The world of the travelling circus in the 1930s she described just sucks you in . The lack of depth of the human character is replaced by the depth of character of their animal counterparts . Rex and Leo the lions Bobo the chimp and Rosie the Elephant . The story just came alive with all those great period details.Also despite of the predictable outcome of the love story it is the structure of the narration that keeps you glued until the last page . Gruen zooms back and forth between Jacob 's old self a miserable 93 yo in a nursing home wifeless and seen as a mere duty to his family and his young self . The way old Jacob yearns for life is all too familiar and is echoed in the young Jacob 's lust for life . Ultimately you want to know what happens to both Jacobs Will the young Jacob win his love and will the old Jacob regains his peace of mind ? Finally this is not high literature . Like a circus show Water for Elephants is entertaining exhillirating memorable beautiful and therefore makes a great holiday read . Recommended . ",3
"Calling it a love story does n't do it justice as it is so much more . Really liked the meticulously researched historical aspects of the story both from the point of view of America in depression and also a backstage pass into traveling circuses of that time which alone was worth the price of admission . ",3
"Water for Elephants is highly fascinating both in plot develoment as well as historical presentation . Gruen obviously invested an abundance of time researching the subject because the novel is rich with sensory imagery . Some folks may be bothered by the seedy side of the circus but I do n't think Gruen 's goal was to paint a manufactured tale of such transitory poor misfits . ",4
"great . everything you want in a great novel from characters you really care about to surpriises to viilains you hate to real adventure to circus history and personal romance . hard to put down . ",4
"I spent most of this book disliking it . I hated the constant depiction of cruelty to animals and people I hated the griminess inherent in the depiction of circus life and I hated the naivete of main character Jacob Jankowski the poor veterinary student forced by a cruel twist of fate to seek shelter and employment with the Benzini Brothers traveling circus.It took me forever to make it through the first 100 pages and the only reason I stuck with it was because I was just too lazy to go pick out another book to read . This is the one that was on my bed so this is the one I picked up to read every night before going to sleep.Finally I reached the 100th page and was ready to turn to something else but to my surprise I realized that I wanted to know what was going to happen . I had become interested in the character of Rosie the elephant who was rescued from another show and I wanted to make sure things came out all right for her in the end . I actually read the entire last third of the book in one setting . I still was n't enjoying it mind you but I was really worried about Rosie ! I am not going to relate the plot because I do n't want to give any spoilers but let me just say that the ending of the book was one of the sweetest most satisfying book endings I have ever read in my life . I still do n't like the book but I love the ending ! ",2
"I really enjoyed this book as I found it a very quick read with characters I was interested in.Water for elephants is told by an ornery man Jacob Jankowki about 90 years old whose life now consists of residing in an assisted living center where his children visit when they can.The story goes back and forth from his life in the present to his life in the past when by a turn of fate he found himself traveling with the Benzini Brothers Circus as their Vet . The time is the 19201930 's and we get to see life during The Great Depression.Their are many eccentric characters and if you love the circus and animals there is plenty of that for you . I found the story of the circus performers lives fascinating . It really is a great read . ",4
"Hard to stop reading Gruen spins a wonderful tale with vivid characters . Even the pitiful elephants have a role as all sentient being should . But Gruen is never preachy . She lays out the story for the enjoyment of the reader . Good juicy book . ",4
"After seeing this book on the top of the lists with so many stars I figured this would be a great book.Honestly I do n't get any of the 5 star ratings claiming it 's the greatest book could n't put it down etc.The story is decent and I found myself wanting to read it but all the time I felt like the story was going to be pick up at any moment and get REALLY exciting . I mean cmon ! It 's a nearly 5 star book ! Except that it never did . Not even when it go the exciting part.One reviewer mentioned that it seemed as if the author realized they need to wrap it up and hustled the story along . Where a day in the beginning took several pages when it finally got to the good stuffit was all done in a few paragraphs or very few pages . It was an ok read at best but it 's not a 5 star book . A 5 star book should be a book that consumes you and stays with you when it 's over . This book simply did n't do that . It told a story wrapped up and ended.It almost seemed like the author did n't really connect or have real grasp on the characters when writing the past parts . When she wrote about elderly Jacob it was spot on and you really felt what Jacob was feeling and got immersed into his world . While when reading about young Jacob you feel more like you are just reading a story about someone . For me the best books are those that put you in the world of the character and for whatever reason Sara could only do this in the present storyline.Also the ending of the present day Jacob was a little lackluster I thought and completely unrealistic . It kind of took away from what good the book had.Bottom line it 's an ok read but I ca n't say that I 'll be going around recommending it to my friends or anyone who asks about it.COMPLAINT Before I reviewed this Kindle Bookit was $ 5.00 . When I bought it the price had gone up to $ 6.39 . I noticed that the cover changed to the movie one . This seems RIDICULOUS since Kindle readers do n't really have a use for covers . Also the original book has old time pictures of circus people . The Kindle version does NOT have this because the movie book does n't have them either I checked in a local store . Which makes sense in that you ca n't have a movie cover with pictures that do n't relate to the movie so they were evidently removed . But I was not happy that I paid more for a book with less just because two actors now grace it 's cover on an ebook . And if I had any cover I 'd prefer the original anyway . ",2
"is n't pretty neglect of the elderly abuse of animals abuse of humans slavery penury starvation mental illness and murder . Authoress Gruen plunks you right down amidst it all . You are really there . And the epilogue is a real shocker pun intended . Let 's just say Thomas Edison was n't exactly Saint Thomas . ",4
"In our hurried lives filled with responsibilities and all the stress associated with it how many of us dream to run away with the circus ? Well in Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen the central character Jacob Janjowski runs away from his life 's troubles to join the Benzini Brothers train circus.In this new adventure Jacob comes of age with the circus freaks clowns and countless animals that dazzle the imagination of the many that come to peek into a world of wonder . He discovers love hard work and his passion for animals.Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen takes the reader on the lost world of the traveling circuits in an age that many lost hope because of the peril circumstances of the Great Depression.The first few pages simply grab you and you will not want to miss this page turner and the mystic circus world . ",3
"I was skeptical of a book detailing life in a traveling circus . But overall this was an entertaining and well written book . There were a few things that did n't flow well or were n't really explained or at least I did n't understand them like why Jacob was so outraged at the gentleman who said he had worked at the circus or for what reason Marlena was throwing a suprise for her husband that ended up going poorly . But these uncertainties did n't stop me from enjoying the story . Surprising twist . Sweet ending . ",3
"When Jacob Jankoswki learns of the death of both of his parents in an automobile accident his grief renders him unable to sit for his final exams at Cornell Vet school and he hops the first train he sees out of town . Fate has intervened however and it turns out that the train belongs to a traveling circus which ends up hiring him on as the show 's animal doctor . The year is 1931 jobs are scarce and as Jacob quickly discovers Uncle Al the show 's unforgiving ring master and August rule the circus with an iron hand . Performers are treated well but working men often go unpaid or worse are red lighted or thrown off the moving train in the dead of night . It is a brutal world and Jacob walks its fine line between working men and performers . One day Jacob falls in love with Marlena the show 's star attraction and the wife of homicidally paranoid schizophrenic August and their worlds at the circus will never be the same.This is an excellent and engrossing novel told from the point of view of Jacob both in 1931 and today with him at age 93 and in a nursing home reflecting on past memories . Pull back the tent flap and step right in to the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth . You will yearn to be sitting in the circus train 's boxcar curled up with a book by the light of a flickering kerosene lantern amidst the folds of big top canvas as you roll on through the night to the next town and the next big show . ",4
"Somehow Sara Gruen managed to make a thriller out of a nursing home escape via front wheel walker and wheelchair . Just my way to illustrate a wonderful writing style and imagination . ",3
"Excellently written and completely absorbing . It 's one of those rare books that has no part you will want to skim over or read through.The characters and the story linger in your mind long after you finish reading the book . Easy to read I highly recommend . ",4
"As I have stated before one of my MANY quirks is that I must read a book before I watch the movie . When I read in Entertainment Weekly the Reese Witherspoon and Robert Pattison would be starring in the film adaptation of Water for Elephants I knew that I had to pick it up . I rarely pay full price for a book . However this one had such rave reviews that I could n't help myself . Still it sat on my bookcase until this week when I promised to read it before the opening of the movie . Honestly I was greatly disappointed.Sara Gruen tells the story of Jacob Jankowski who is so distraught after his parents ' deaths that he runs away with the circus . He leaves between his education at Cornell University and his future as a veterinarian . Fortunately his study of veterinary medicine helps him land a job as the circus ' vet . While touring with the circus he meets a number of characters from a red haired midget clown to an old circus worker who is struck with jake walk a condition brought on by drinking tainted whiskey . Jacob soon discovers that life on the road is beyond trying . When an elephant is brought on as part of the show Jacob finds himself torn between his job as a compassionate vet and the rules of the circus . This causes Jacob to bump heads with his boss August who is beyond temperamental and at times masochistic . To complicate matters Jacob is in love with the lead actress of the show Malena who just happens to be August 's wife.While the subject matter of the circus would seem to be incredibly interesting this novel was boring from start to finish . The entire plot was cliched the relationships were shallow and the characters were without depth . From the first chapter I knew the exact path that the novel was going to take . Every time I thought to put the book down I convinced myself to give it one more chance . It was after all a bestseller therefore I thought it would get better . It never did . If anything it got worse as every cliche was reinforced . The only twist came at the very end and was so absurd I had to reread the last few pages three times over to make sure that I read it correctly . A book is only as good as its character development but in this novel there is no development . Though Jacob attempts to mature he ca n't seem to figure out what his priorities are . Incidentally neither can Gruen for she has Jacob bemoan his conflicting emotions between his love for Marlena and his feelings towards animal abuse . Fortunately for Jacob the animals take their fate into their own hands which relieves Jacob of having to develop . I hope for the box office 's sake that the movie fails to resemble the book . Either way I will not be the first in line at the theater . ",1
"This book is a page turner but it certainly did not live up to the hype . It is reminiscent of older works like The Great Gatsby and Fifth Business but does n't try to be deep . Yes the point of view of the old man was done well but frankly quite boring . The love story felt flat what exactly did they see in each other ? neither had any personality ",2
"Good story line entertaining The dont like the circus but this has a great story line thatyes has a circus feel but it has a love story drama and flash backs into the past . Great book . ",4
"I like that it is a true story . It has strong and welldeveloped characters . If you liked the movie you will like the book . Movie is truer to the book than many but the book has more detail as expected . ",4
"One of the best books I have ever read . Truly a great joy to read . All the woman in my family have read it and we all came away loving the story . I fell in love with Rosie the elephant . ",4
"90ish Jacob Jankowski narrates his story in flashbacks from a nursing home . His days with the circus feel more real and alive to him than his current reality.After his parents are killed in a car accident Jacob runs out on his vet school exams and joins the circus . Circus life is not always easy but Jacob has experiences with humans and animals that change his life forever.Gruen brings the Depressionera circus vividly to life along with its many colorful characters . If Rosie the elephant and Bobo the orangutan do n't touch your heart it 's made of stone ! Highly recommended ! ",4
"I had hesitated purchasing this book as I had read mediocre reviews of the movie when it came out . I was hooked from the first chapter ! The chapters set in the nursing home had me laughing out loud ! Some of the animal cruelty segments were very difficult to read but the book is very well written and almost makes you feel as if you are right there with the circus family ! I have already highly recommended it to friends . ",4
"This book was easy reading but was also kind of facile and read like a treatment for a movie script and I am sure there will be a movie . I think we were supposed to find crotchety old Jacob lovably cantankerous but I just thought he was annoying . The circus story featuring young Jacob was much better but all it has is plotcharacters do n't really develop writing is passable but not skilled . ",1
"This is a great book . It has twists and turns and many surprises . One of those stories I would read again . There is so much I am sure I missed something . ",4
"I LOVED this book and found it nearly impossible to put down ! Buy it today you will not regret it ! ",4
"Water for Elephants took a little while to fully grab my attention with the flash backs between the circus and Jacob 's time in the nursing home . Once it got my attention it held it right through to the very end.There were a few relationships that stood out in my mind . The first was between Rosemary and Jacob . Their relationship exemplified the relationship I would hope all nursing home staff had with the residents . Her understanding and patience as Jacob flashes back and forth between the present day and his youth is remarkable and her connection seems to surpass the bond he shares with his children.I never would have thought I would enjoy a book that centered around the cicus but this novel was about so much more than just the shows under the big top . It focused on love friendship aging and compassion . ",3
"This book is an easy read that is highly entertaining and visual . I loved it so much that I bought it on tape so that my family could share it . It truly captivated me . I highly recommend it if you are looking for a solid good read . ",4
"I read this book because my sisterinlaw who never reads could not put it down until she finished . So I gave it a go and after a slow start was interested enough to finish . The author does everything she can to exploit the reader 's concern for cats dogs monkeys and of course the titular elephant . The narrator is a vet who sticks with the circus at first in order to protect the animals but he does little to interfere with their mistreatment or the mistreatment of his fellow humans . In that sense the book rings false . The book exploits the reader 's feeling for animals and animalhuman relationships for some cheap emotional effect . And it worked on me to some extent because I cared about and shed shed tears for the animals much more than the humans . But I fail to see larger point . ",2
"I agree with several other people who found it amazing that this is a bestseller . As an author whose books sell poorly right here on Amazon I wish I knew her secret . I found it disgusting on so many levels hard to follow and in the end just not worth reading . Perhaps something in the last third of the book would have changed my mind but I could n't finish it . I ca n't remember the last time I threw a book into the garbage can but I looked it over carefully thought about the very act of throwing out a book and then dropped it into the trash . I do n't regret it . ",0
"I was pleasantly surprised by this book . It was a delight to read on several levels aging circus life and life during the depression . I loved the characters and the plot . ",4
"A sad story beautifully told . Gruen cuts effortlessly between a faultless evocation of a seedy circus during the Depression a grotesquerie if ever there was one and the modernday life of an nonagenarian trapped in a failing body and a souless nursing home . Gruen 's vivid prose and deadon dialog transport the reader to a place and time both physical and emotional that does not fail to fascinate . What in less talented hands might easily be a depressing tale of old age is animated by the spunk and wit of her main character . My only complaint about the story is its ending which I frankly found implausible . But that 's a minor complaint about an otherwise absorbing book . ",2
"I loved the time setting and how the author went back and forth from now to then it really gave you a sense of how the old man felt it was sweet but sad . I saw the movie too and as always the book was much better . It 's one of the best books I have read in a long time . ",4
"Loved the author 's notes at the end her words made the novel that much more personal . Loved the book ! Read it ! ",4
"I absolutely love this book ! Sara Gruen does an amazing job of weaving a tale about the journey towards the end of one 's life the beginning of love tragedy uncertainty sadness happiness and delightful surprises . ",4
"The writing and story were wonderful but the end came way too quickly I could have stayed entertained much longer . I was born in 1945 and like other little poor kids we loved when the circus came to the area . ",3
"Creating a story where your main character is alternately 93 and 23 or so is a daunting task for any author but Sara Gruen yanks us around with grace . Jacob Joins the Circus is not in the thoughts of either Jacob but life is funny for a vet student who suffers a personal crisis hits the rails and jumps onto the only train filled with patients for whom he 's trained to assist and human subjects of a certain period.It 's 1931 and the Great Depression is in full stench . With creatures of every variety in need of his services Jacob becomes part of the Benzini Brothers a circus dying to be Ringling Brothers and as we learn their management headed up by Uncle Al a brute in anyone 's managerie is ready to literally dump dead weight and steal what he needs to drive that train where he wants it to go . Jacob endears himself as a necessary component and survives the late night redlighting that makes roadkill of certain colleagues.Love springs eternal as both young and old Jacob encounter women who make the journey worth hanging for . When the elephant comes to town the men of both eras are drawn closer still and we can feel their joy their pain their passion writ in every color of the literary rainbow . Ms. Gruen clearly has a passion for the subject and has researched every nuance and trick of the periods and the ride is a rollick . Certain characters pop in without much preamble and we feel genuine pain for little Walter and his doggie and for Casey the victim of the Jake an ailment wished on no person . The deepest sympathy is felt for the largest of creatures Rosie and we wince at every poke of the trainer 's prod every command misunderstood and yet she 's not why we bought a ticket to the show.Water for Elephants avoids the traps of a parable or a fairy tale or a moralistic thriller and we 're left with what we came for a well paced story filled with great characters who remain there after the day ends and by the end of the ride it 's a Book for Everyone . ",3
"The excellent details of circus life and the story of Jacob were capturing . Enjoyed the change from past to present without confusion . At the end wanted to read more of the life of Jacob . Maybe a sequel ? ",4
"I read this book for my book club a couple months ago and we unanimously liked it . Animal rights activists may find themselves squirming at times . But it 's worth the read . Highly recommended . ",4
"What an enjoyable book ! The plot although at times a little predictable was refreshing and well written . I fell in love with Jacob young but especially Jacob old . His frustration with the tricks his body and mind had played on him were real and understandable . His joy at the end of the book put a grin on my face . I know there have been quite a few of you who found the profanity excessive and gratuitous but I think it fit the station of life and the time period and would not let it stop me from a book this enjoyable . I would recommend this book to anyone but especially those of you who find the time period of the 30 's facinating . ",3
"A masterpiece both historically and emotionally accurate . I Highly recommend it.You wo n't be able to put this one down . ",4
"This was the kind of novel that I hated to finish . The characters were so endearing the story so exciting and heartfelt . Sara Gruen is a wonderful writer . She weaves memory around a love story filled with action and adventure using the backdrop of a travelling circus during the Great Depression . A wonderful trip to another time . I found it very hard to put this novel down . ",4
"Water for Elephants was the last Book Club selection I read and It was not my choice . Reading it was a bit of a chore for me because upon reading a small synposis of it I felt like I was back in high school . But like I did in school I learned something . I learned about what it is like to be in a circus to know what drives someone to join a circus especially in a different generation . The main protagonist Jacob Jankowksi however was a likable character and I liked his spunk . Each chapter is narrated by the Old and young Jacob . The old version would be looking back in time thus the next chapter would bring us to that exact moment in time when he joined and when he met the woman he would fall in love with . The writing at times really did n't give me any feeling that I could not put this book down . There is something about Ms. Gruen 's writing that I just ca n't put into words other than I did n't care for it and I do n't think she 's a very good writer.I am a very open minded reader and am willing to try anything . This is one book that I feel I wasted far too much time on . I did n't even really finish it as I was still several chapters away from the end the night before our meeting.Take a look at my reviews to see some really wonderful books and see if you agree with me.Eileen F . ",0
"This book is a must read ! I absolutely loved every minute of it . It is different yet keeps you reading . The characters are wonderful and the story is told with a great amount of emotion . Love love love ",4
"Reading the back cover of the book did not entice me to read this . A friend told me I had to read it however . It is excellent . I was n't sure about it at first but ended up loving it . ",4
"Books are entertainment . There are some that get taught flying lessons but overall most manage to accomplish that goal . Some you enjoy while the book is open and then forget as you close the cover on the last page . Some may stay with you a day a week a month . These you probably tell your friends about . Most are interruptible if something else comes along . The phone rings your neighbor comes knocking cat fight in the yard world peace is declared you dogear the corner set it aside and get back to it later.And then there is that rare book you open to the first page and several hours later your butt numb your joints stiff from inactivity your eyes misting your vision blurred you close the cover on the last page . That rare book that sucks you in so completely you lose track of time and place . You look up from the page at your surroundings and feel a momentary confusion . The morning light that was streaming through your window when you started reading is now afternoon light coming through the door . That rare book that as you race midway through you wish with all your heart it would never end . That rare book you long to jump into become a part of live forever in.Water For Elephants by Sara Gruen is such a book . ",4
"This is by far an exceptional book . It gives a glimpse of circus life that you would never know about if you had n't read this book . But it is a truly good story with a decent ending for a very old circus man . It leaves you thinking of the story long after you are done with the book and while reading it it is a real page turner . ",4
"This story started out good in e beginning . About halfway through it became a little disturbing . I felt like it lost the magic from the start oc ",1
"This is a really sweet creative and unexpected story of love and survival . A quick but memorable read . ",3
"It was okay . I liked the relationship between Marlena and Jacob but it did n't captivate me as much as I thought it would . ",2
"I thought this topic would be very interesting as you get to see the inner workings of a Circus . That 's something I 'd never read about and DID find interesting and it 's probably what kept me reading all the way to the end.The characters however were not that well developed especially Marlena . Most of the time she comes off as an airheaded child a woman easily fooled and manipulated . It 's also sort of difficult to really imagine Jacob and Marlena being so completely in love as they do n't really have anything in common other than their love of animals . Also not a big fan of the book flashing back and forth between 22 year old Jacob and 91 year old Jacob . Most of the old Jacob chapters are tedious to read and the payoff at the end with him is pretty smallespecially as you are n't really sure how he got to be so grumpy and bitter.The main thing I disliked about this book is that it gives away the ending in the first chapter . You know the bad guy is going to die from page 1 . So the rest of the book has you feeling pretty indifferent because you already know what the outcome will be . You already know the hero prevails and the tension or the thrill of finding out what will happen is gone . ",2
"When a friend recommended this book I was hesitant because I normally do not like novels that revolve around history or romance . I honestly read the book to appease my friend and was blown away by the characters and the storyline . The book was definitely not the boring and corny romance story I expected it to be . I found Water for Elephants to be captivating humorous and heartbreaking.The book begins with a young veterinary student who discovers that his parents have been killed in a car accident . He returns home to find that he has been left with nothing and that his parents had put everything at stake for his ivy league education . When they died their home veterinary practice and savings were all lost to the bank . Overcome by grief he is unable to complete his finals and runs away from everything and everyone he knows . At a loss for direction and purpose he jumps a train in the dead of night hoping to find himself in a strange town where he can start to live again . Instead he finds himself on a circus train where he becomes engrossed in a community unlike anything that he has ever experienced . The weeks and months that follow are both his saving grace and his living hell . ",4
"What an intriguing story ! From the first gripping lines of the prologue I was pulled into the world of the traveling circus a world I had purposefully avoided until now . Told through the perspective of an elderly man 's recollections this book is full of grit empathy and adventure and is a sharp portrayal of the seedier side of the depression era sideshow life . The author juxtaposed greed sloth abuse mental illness and the fascinating circus world of cheap glamour and talented charlatans against the bittersweet remembrances of an old man and his present day frustration with trying to live life more fully at an advanced age . There is a little surprise at the end that I had not foreseen . The back of the book describes this work with words like vivid rich and riveting . It is all of those things and more a great story well told . Water for elephants is highly recommended . ",4
"I think I liked every single page of this book . It was a wellwritten semihistorical account of circus life and human interaction but it was n't over written . Definitely one of the better books I 've read . It did move a bit slowly but it 's difficult to notice how slowly a book moves when you read it quickly . I imagine if I had read this book over the stretch of a week or two it would have been a little less interesting . However it did motivate me to keep reading so I doubt I would have wanted to stretch it out that long . ",4
"Wonderful and moving . The author has a way of inviting you into this mysterious misunderstood hard world where nothing is really as it seems . It is gritty and unattractive yet passionate and gripping . Loved it . ",4
"I wish I had NEVER seen the movie after reading this book . I was beyond excited to know they had done a movie since I absolutely fell in love with this book until I struggled through it ",4
"Fascinating and riveting novel chockerblock full of vivid historical detail about life in a second rate traveling circus during the depression in the United States . It was a real glimpse of Americana because of the author 's meticulous research . All the elements of a great read love desire action humor murder and a totally surprising and superb ending . The true heroine is a wonderful elephant named Rosie . ",4
"Such a good read and hard to put down . Liked the ending found it to be a happy possibility . ",4
"I thought about these characters when I was n't reading that rarely happens . Very enjoyable read . ",4
"This was a great adventure and had been engrossed throughout the entire book . Sweet but strong men some violent and control freaks . ",4
"One of my biggest indicators of a wellwritten book is if I am transported to that world in such a way that I can see hear and even smell it . Sara Gruen sweeps a 93 year old Jacob Jankowski quickly into your heart before tossing you into the world of his 23 year old self . We are there to witness the moment in this man 's life when the smooth path he is on is upheaved with the death of his parents and the loss of his future veterinary practice . His new course turns out to be on the tracks and with the belly of the circus.With the help of an old roustabout Jacob learns the language and hierarchy of the circus and eventually lands a job as the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth 's vet . We learn with our protagonist the dirty reality of day to day life of a traveling circus in 1931 . A colorful host of secondary characters help Jacob on his journey with the most important being Marlena the show 's star equestrian and her husband the cruel animal master August.Jacob and Marlena 's paths soon become twisted and intertwined as the fall in love and try to find their escape from her insane brutal husband and the circus that they are trapped in serving . Their answer comes in the form of an elephant named Rosie and a fateful disaster that destroys those holding them back while free the lovers to their happily ever after.This story comes full circle in the end as 93 year old Jacob finds himself once again at the gates of the big top and is given a chance to go home once again . ",4
"I decided to read Water for Elephants because I discovered that Robert Pattinson is going to star in the movie version of it . As you may or may not know I am a HUGE fan of Robert Pattinson . I definitely like him more than I should . Robert Pattinson aside I am so glad I read this book . I did not know what to expect but it was absolutely amazing ! The main character Jacob is so easy to like . He has lived an extremely interesting life . In the beginning he is a veterinarian student who is about to take his final test to become a fullfledged vet . Unfortunately for him a tragedy claims his parents ' lives and he becomes too emotionally broken to even start the test . He ends up jumping on a train that happens to be a circus train so he is practically thrown into this world as the circus vet.I really loved this book for so many reasons . One Jacob is a vet sort of which I love because that is what I want to do . You can obviously tell he loves animals . The characters were complex and intriguing . The bad guys like August and Uncle Al had so many levels to them that they were often hard to read . Rosie the elephant was probably one of my favorite characters . Even if she is an elephant she was so funny and smart ! She definitely made the story so much better because I could not help but love her.Water for Elephants is an amazing book . Sara Gruen is such a talented writer that it is no wonder I love this book so much . With the action forbidden love hard choices loss and so much more Water for Elephants is one of the best books I have ever read . It captivated me from page 1 . I absolutely love this book and it is now one of my favorites . ",4
"Absolutely LOOOOOOOOVED this book ! I have an old sentimental soul and I got lost in the world created in this novel . I would highly recommend it to a friend ! ",4
"This beautifully written novel opens with Jacob age 93 or 90 he does n't remember which . The book flashes back and forth from Jacob 's present life in an oldage home to his young adult life caring for animals in a traveling circus . Though a bit over the top this story is so marvelously told that I found myself turning page after page savoring the prose . ",3
"A truly great read with a slice of American history thrown in . I recommend this book to history buffs and animal lovers alike . ",3
"I really enjoyed this . The 'past ' story is brilliantI loved how we return to the Prologue events at the end . Not so impressed with the ending of the book itself the 'present ' but otherwise entertaining and enjoyable . Wellexecuted ! ",3
"Jacob Jankowski is ninetythree or ninety and resides in a nursing home visited once a week by family members . When a circus comes to town and sets up camp nearby Jacob remembers his stint on a traveling circus during the Depression . As a young man he studied veterinary science at Cornell but a family tragedy caused him to change his course . Once enlisted as the circus vet Jacob meets an array of colorful people and animals who are by turns violent gentle mercurial and loyal . When he falls in love with the wife of one of his colleagues trouble arises . resulting in tragedy . However there is a second act in the senior Jacob 's life as it turns out he is not yet through being part of a circus.This is an unforgettable book that depicts a world that will be unfamiliar to many readers . Those who have enjoyed Ms. Gruen 's earlier horse novels will likely enjoy this as well although it is written ina different style . A deserved bestseller Water For Elephants is a heartwarming story and a ripping yarn as the Brtish might say . ",4
"On my list of Books to Read I finally got around to reading Sarah Gruen 's Water for Elephants and found myself up until the wee hours of the morning finishing the last breathtaking page.This is the kind of book that is so well researched and told that it captivates you much like the circus it portrays with feats of beauty and astonishment.I really loved this book and was somewhat disappointed by the movie which as always changes certain aspects of the book and allows for directorartistic interpretation of scenes contrary to my original interpretation . But that 's the beauty of books and individual interpretation they are your own to make as beautiful as you can imagine guided only by the artistic mastery of the author.I saw that another individual had given this book 1 star merely for editing on an EBook version . Unless every word was morphed and unreadable I find that slightly harsh to Ms. Gruen.This is a wonderful story that has moment 's similar to the The Notebook and the movie Big Fish . I recommend it for anyone who enjoys historical fiction and romance . It is carefully researched and filled with drama humor passion and love . ",4
"Watched the film first and loved it . The book did n't disappoint either . Even though I had watched the film it was an interesting read it did n't feel boring to read what I 've already seen . The characters 's good I especially liked Walter and some other of the minor roles the rhythm of the writing flowing and easily read . Jacob 's tone and style of talking is well carried through the book . It feels like you 're there . It was also fascinating to get glimpses of his current old life . What he had become after all of the adventures an old man forgotten by his children and family reliving his past . It was sad and you could understand his grumpiness.There 's just something about circuses that 's fascinating . It was interesting to learn how the circus worked in the 30s how they travelled by train how the hierarchy was arranged how you lived your life in a circus . ",3
"It was a great book to read better than the movie.Everyone should definitely read this book . I absolutely loved everything about it . ",3
"Not once while reading this book was I emotionally hooked unless you count my anger at the author . For all Gruen 's indepth research into circus life of the 1930s the atmosphere of the narrative felt wrong . The dialogue sounded far too contemporary and the stage directions I looked out the window He moved his jaw before answering I looked steadily at her then looked away and the dramatic in the distance I heard the sound of a camel were intrusive . Add to that the constant cutting back and forth from youngbuck Jacob to retirmenthome Jacob and you feel not that you 're immersed in another world but rather reading the script of a touching Hallmark Theater production.The characters are from central casting the good hearted whore the tyrannical boss the crazy husband and his sweet but longsuffering wife . And the noble hero . Young and bereft of family Jacob stumbles into circus life and is hired as a vet . He is painted as the champion of the small and weak regardless of sex or species always wanting to do good and right . And yet at the moment when his friends need him most he 's gone taking their only means of protection a knife with him . And the elephant for whom he professes deep affection he leaves to the hands of a crazed maniac to be beaten not once but twice and our hero does nothing about it . How can we possibly cheer for him ? Too bad the story was n't told from the POV of a minor character named Greg . Greg shows up twice first when he retrieves the elephant using what he knows she loves booze . He shows up later ministering to her wounds from one of the beatings . He 's speaking Polish to her the language she understands . Why did we need Jacob ? Sounds like we already had a vet and a worthy hero standing in the wings . ",0
"This is a book for anyone who loves to be drawn into a stroy and held there . This is a richly written and warm page turner with characters that come to life . I read it quickly and my only complaint was that I was left wanting more of this beautiful story . ",4
"This book was just wonderful ! I love how it turned into a love story with some crazy things happening along the way . Awesome read ! ",3
"If you are like me you 're wanting to read the book before the movie comes out in a few weeks . I 've heard about this book for months but I never could bring myself to buy it . A favorite actor of mine is in the movie so I finally decided to read it . I am sorry I waited so long to do so ! It 's one of the best books I 've ever read . The author 's words are so wellwritten and descriptive they paint pictures in your mind . GET THIS BOOK if you want a heartwarming and at times thrilling read ! ",4
"I had been wanting to read this for awhile so I finally ordered it from Amazon . I was not disappointed ! The story was wonderful uplifting and bittersweet . Gruen 's research on circus history added much to an already entertaining plot.This is another book my 14yearold son read after I did . There are some graphic parts though so use your own judgment before you pass it on to your kids.Enjoy ! ",3
"I was hesitant to read this book because I 'm not particularly interested in the circus however it was a revealing inside look at how hard 'carnie ' life was . It also shows how life can throw you some curve balls that completely changes the path you take . This story flowed and it was hard to put downnice and easy to follow . ",3
"I was apprehensive at first about reading the book since it was already out in a movie but I truly enjoyed the book.Good read ! ",3
"I really enjoyed this book but I do n't really know why . The story was not anything extraordinary . The love story left something to be desired . Does anyone understand where exactly that came from ? One minute he sees her across a crowded room and then bang ! she just happens to love him too . Okay then do n't bother to really get to know each other . Some of the characters were hardly developed Marlena mainly . There were moments I found to be quite crude and crass . However somehow I know that years from now I will look back at this read fondly.My best guess is that I just liked the voice found throughout the novel . In fact I would go so far as to say the narration was superb . I have always been a fan of first person and while the bulk of this story is in fact first person Gruen superbly weaves a sort of third person narration . The transitions are so smooth that you barely notice the shift . Gruen is just a superb narrator or maybe it 's Jacob who does the great job ? Now for a few thoughts on the film I have four words do n't waste your time . If the narration and not the actual story is what makes the book then it is a no brainer that a movie would fall very short . This film was really not good at least from where I was sitting . Maybe it has to do with the major lack of chemistry between Witherspoon and Pattinson ? ",3
"I saw the movie first and then knew I had to read the book . As expected the book is even better than the movie amazing detail and unexpected plot twists . Great read ! ",4
"This is not the type of book that I usually read but once I started I could n't put it down . The lives that those people lived if half of this book was true was truly horrendous . This was truly a compelling story and one that I have already recommended to many of my friends ! ! ",4
"This book has it allan insiteful look at circus life during the depression . a love story great character studys human and animal . So looking forward to the spring 2011 moviethe lead actors perfectly chosen . ",4
"I loved this book . I could not put it down once I began reading it . Perhaps it 's because I 'm rapidly approaching the age where I could end up in a nursing home myself but that part of the book fascinated me . It 's from the perspective of a 93yearold man in a nursing home . It rang true . I was touched by the nurse who treated him like a person who explained things to him and cried with him when his family failed to show up to take him to the largerthanlife event he had looked forward to throughout the bookthe circus . It made me think back over the experiences with our own parents and wish I could go back and do things differently.The other part of the book the flashbacks into this man 's history were fastpaced and exciting . I immediately sympathized when as a young man he lost his parents and found himself alone in the world and understood his running away from it all . Maybe I question the believability of one or two points while he traveled with the circus but not enough that it marred my enjoyment of the book . I simply took it as an indication of how much things have changed in this country over time . What would not fly now might have at one time . It opened my eyes to how easy it is to become absorbed into any society even the world of a traveling circus and how to survive a person must abide by rules they might otherwise never consider . The book showed the higher and baser aspects of human nature all of which I found easily believable . The world is filled with people who have differing stories and problems . We do n't all behave the same or believe the same but we do conform to the ethics of our individual worldsgood or bad . I believe the author demonstrated that beautifully.I read some of the other reviews and was saddened that some people could n't see past the imperfections and simply enjoy the different facets of the story . It 's a good one.I highly recommend this book to anyone who loves a good read . ",4
"Wonderful book . I liked the audio book on my long drive to and from work . I liked how the voice changed from young to older . I 'm glad I readlistened to the book before I saw the movie . I liked the book better than the movie ",3
"One of the best books I have ever read ! Fluid narrative . Great character development . I could not put it down . What a great story . It is a must in any one 's collection of great fiction ! ",4
"The book was interesting but I think mostly because the subject matter was something different . The characters in my opinion could have been fleshed out a lot more . It seemed to me to be a book written primarily so a movie could be made of it . It was more of an outline for a larger novel . Aside from that again it was interesting I just thought there should be more to it . ",2
"Took this and The Call Girl Actress Confessions of a Lesbian Escort by Erica Black to the beach this summer . I had to put this one back in my beach bag . I was glad I had Erica 's book or I 'd have been bored . I do n't think this will go down as Gruen 's best effort . Very easy to guess what was coming from the plot . ",2
"WATER FOR ELEPHANTS is like candy for readers . It was one of two best books I 've read in the past year . In fact it probably ranks as one of my favorite books of all time . It was expertly yet simply written by Sara Gruen . The novel tells the story from the perspective of Jacob Jankowski who currently resides in a nursing home . The story alternates between Jacob 's current living situation and the story of his past how he once worked in a circus during the first part of the 20th century . The impending visit of a traveling circus next door to the nursing home prompts him to remember the details of his circus lifeexperiences when he was a young man.Gruen 's description of the nursing home its residents and its daytoday activities was spoton . Having visited my grandparents on several occasions in their nursing home I could easily visualize and relate to Jacob 's experiences . It really came to life.You can tell that a lot of research was also put into the circus recollections of Jacob Jankowski . Gruen delves into circus life in the early 20th century when circuses traveled via train from town to town and animal welfare and regulations were little more than an afterthought . I found all of Jankowski 's experiences intriguing and actually felt like I was experiencing them right along with him . The characterizations felt realistic too and I could easily distinguish between the many different circus workers and even some of the more prominent animals.It was n't until halfway through the novel though that I realized how the nursing home is a metaphor for the circus . Gruen makes subtle comparisons between the animals in the circus and the residents of nursing home . They 're both herded fed and prodded . Jacob even says I 'm so used to being scolded and herded and managed and handled that I 'm no longer sure how to react when someone treats me like a real person . So true . And sad.Now that I 've read this fantastic book I 'm very eager to see the forthcoming movie adaptation . I 'd like to say that I 'd love to see a sequel to this great tale however I think Jacob Jankowski 's story has already been told in full in this one wellcrafted novel . ",4
"I could n't put this down . A wonderful story with rich authentic detail . ",4
"You 've heard the story about the blind man feeling an elephant and trying to describe what it is ? In many ways I felt the same way reading Sara Gruen 's fastpaced and engaging story . It is an oddity . It is wondrous . And it also has some plodding filthy elements.Water for Elephants starts with a grippping prologue during which we see the murder of a circus employee in the 1930s . The story then switches back and forth between young and old Jacob a man who gets pulled into the circus life discovers love adventure and trouble and then reflects back on that as an old man . Gruen does a fine job creating this empathetic character though the old man 's story becomes less important and almost campy by the end . The young man 's story delves deeply into circus life with lots of interesting details and conflict although the characters are all fairly black and white with the villains being obvious and predictable . For some reason Gruen also seems compelled to give us lurid details of the circus striptease and Jacob 's own loss of virginity at the hands of the cooch tent prostitutes . Why these elements are described in such detail only detracts from the already shallow love story to come . It would be nice to see some intellectual dialogue between our male and female leads rather than coy glances shapely calves and the surface attraction of teenage relationships.Soon Jacob 's background in veterinary studies allows him to find a place onboard the circus train during which he falls in love with Marlena a woman trapped in an abusive relationship . When the circus procures a new elephant for its act it provides a link between Jacob and Marlena as well as with Rosie the elephant . The problem is the jealous and psychotic August Marlena 's husband . We know he must be removed from the picture for this to work . Deeply ethical and moral issues come into play but Gruen chooses the easy route and solves the problem in a somewhat satisfactory but highly implausible way . This is only underlined by the equally implausible solution of oldman Jacob 's frustrations . Sure it 's all warm and gushy but the deep research and texture of the circus and some of its elements give way to romanticized solutions that turn a historic novel into one of borderline fantasy.With all the fanfare over this novel and tiein movie I suspect I 'll be accused of being the blind man here in my description of the elephant . Many elements were strong and well done but much like Sebold 's The Lovely Bones all of the wonderful storybuilding gives way to a conclusion that feels a bit forced and too easy . ",2
"loved this book ! wonderfully written ! there was not one flaw in this book . im glad the author didnt focus fully on the romance perspective of the book and her going from jacobs youth to jacob as an elderly from chapter to chapter put a great spin on the story.my heart was broken when his family didnt come for him but it turned out with a good ending . if they wouldve come he wouldve went back to the old folks home and although theres no novel following this one im sure he dies with the circus just like hes always dreamed to.cant wait to watch the movie ",4
"This is one of a handful of books I have n't been able to put down easily . Finished in two sittings ! it 's the tale of an old man reflecting on his youth as a Cornell veterinary school dropout who joins the circus after learning he has no home or family to go back to . Carefully researched Sarah Gruen takes the reader through a traveling circus from the depression era . Many of the subplots were taken from actual recorded events adding to the realism of the book . The characters also represented each aspect of the circus I became concerned for the stage dwarf as much as an old tent setter . The novel also switches from the past time in the circus to the present where the protagonist reflects on his current state in the nursing home in an often comical fashion giving a break to the main plot line and building suspense . Highly recommended for those interested in historical novels . ",4
"Such a great book . Flash back from the main character 's POV . Not my usual genre of book but absolutely fell in love with this book . I could not put it down . I would recommend this book to anyone looking for a good read . Absolutely delightful ! ",4
"This book was very interesting and it had a great story line . I had no idea a circus could be like that and I enjoyed the book very much . ",3
"A joy to read . It kept me on the edge of my page . The characters were rich enthralling sweet dark evil and beautiful . ",4
"Wow what a great story . Wonderful book audiobook was fantastic ! Would recommend listening to the audiobook over reading the book . ",4
"Wow ! Sara Gruen is a master storyteller . Her words make the often seedy yet ohsofascinating world behind the scenes of a legendary circus train seem so real so here and now . The central figure of Jacob Jankowski is so well written . I am especially taken with the depiction of life in a nursing home with the body of a 93yearold and the wit and mind of a much much younger man . It gave me a whole new perspective on how sad and depressing life must be like in an institution like that and will make me spend more time getting to know those who find their homes in such a place . But what struck me most was when I read the Afterward in which Ms. Gruen explained the motivation for writing this novel and the incredibly detailed research that she found herself doing just to put pen to paper . Not only is she so very gifted with the ease of writing but she is very committed to the realism of details . Incredible ! She took some really fascinating true stories from some of this country 's most storied circuses and rolled them all into one incredible journey . I highly recommed this book to everyone I meet and I will be looking for more of her works to inspire and inform . Do yourself a favor and pick up this book today . ",4
"I picked up this book not knowing anything about the subject . However I was pleasantly surprised when I found that a veterinarian was the main character . Very good book kept me interested until the end . ",3
"This book was stunning I just could n't get sucked into it and almost gave up until a facebook post where someone said it was one of the best books they 'd ever read . I decided to give it one more try and I 'm so glad I did . It was amazing ! ! ! ",4
"Great biography that touches the soul and causes one to reevaluate their purpose in life . ",4
"I found this book to be a very entertaining read combining historical facts about circus life with a love relationship . I liked the manner in which the author wrote and her vivid characters . It was n't a deep complicated novel but a good story . ",3
"Water for Elephants begins by pulling back the curtain on the inner workings of a nursing home a man begins to speak of the adventure of life in the circus . The book reminded me once again of how much I detest nursing homes . I remember when I volunteered at a nursing home it was so hard to shake the feeling of depression as soon as you walked in no matter how many activities you planned . It was a sad place filled with lonely people staring out of the front doors just hoping family or friends would come visit them . Yet as you roamed the halls you could hear the most amazing stories of lives lived so fully when age did not seem to have the slightest grip . As you read Water for Elephants just like with any life there are parts which you might wish had been edited out yet the story so clearly shines the light on a life lived fully and how society tries to shelve those it believes no longer have something of value to offerThis book is not recommended for all ages as it definitely contains adult material ",3
"I could not put this book down . I absolutely loved it and have passed it on and recommended it to others to read it as well . Although it 's a fictional account of a circus story it was very believable and I was only disappointed in an unrealistic ending . I still give it five stars because everything up to the last page or two was so entertaining . ",4
"I highly recommend it . The story was very entertaining and well written . I enjoyed this book very much . Read it . ",4
"This is one of the best books I have read in quite some time . Good and strong story nicely written . I could not put my kindle down . Thank you Ms.Gruen I really enjoyed your book and will buy more of your work . ",4
"I have had this book for some time now and still have yet to finish it . Everyone raved about how good it was but I found it hard to get into however keep in mind I 'm not an avid reader so it has to be pretty interesting to keep me involved . ",2
"The reviews from Booklist and Publisher 's Weekly are a little misleadingthe book really is more uplifting and not as depressing as the plot elements they have focused upon . This story leads the reader into the rich and complex world of traveling circuses circa 1930 's . The journey of the young man reminded me of Clyde Griffiths in Theodore Dreiser 's An American Tragedy the relationship between Marlena and August reminded me of the dynamics between Sophie and Nathan in William Styron 's Sophie 's Choice . But in spite of these analogies the book still is n't depressing ! A good summer read you wo n't be disappointed . ",4
"Except for Harry Potter series most books are always better than the movie . In this case it definitely is . A must read . I believe it will become a classic for students to read twenty years from now . ",3
"The setting for this drama was nothing that I was familiar with . It made the story original and interesting.I felt a connection to all the characters.The author made every one seem real and I could n't wait to find out what happened to them all.This was a great page turner . ",4
"I had a vague idea of what this book was about before I read it and I was in for a nice surprise . The author paints a wonderful picture of circus life and life on the road . More than that she created a compelling love story that moved the story along quickly and almost effortlessly . It was easy to get lost in the ups and downs of this world and I had a hard time coming back to reality . This is a definite must read . ",4
"I managed to read half the book and then could n't handle reading any more animal abuse . It was the worst I have ever read before . I should have known since it was written about a circus not to read it . ",0
"Water for Elephants deserves all the hype it has gotten . Terrific story and I could not put it down . ",4
"Enjoyed this.Believe a book most anyone would like.Never wanted to run away to a circus but if I did I would join this group of misfits . ",4
"If you are looking for a fast reading really interesting and gripping story with an out of left ending.here it is.Story has all the trappings..sex intrigue murder . Main character is very likeable with a realy love for animals . Villain is a real monster that will make you hate him.Different and really good ! ! ",4
"This was a really good enjoyable authentic endearing book . Thoroughly enjoyable read . One of a kind leaves you wanting more of the circus on the rails of the depression era . I also love firstperson novels that stay on plot and Gruen does n't disappoint there.I TOTALLY disagree with another reviewer who said Gruen overanthropomophized and overromanticized the animals in the story ! Hardly . If anything if Jacob is a vet we read very little of him doing his job in context of the story . And anyone who 's around animals or has worked with animals can hardly fail to form emotional attachments to them.When I finished WATER FOR ELEPHANTS I like I felt when I finished reading FRIED GREEN TOMATOES AT THE WHISTLE STOP CAFE and SEABISCUIT . ",4
"A remarkably fast readleaving the reader breathless from tight action and tingling suspense . This book reveals the glitz and sparkle of the circus along with its dark and terrible underside that lurks barely out of sight . The two time frames of old Jacob and young Jacob are carried through smoothly by Gruen who ties the events together with skillful repetition of words and phrases . I wish there were more novels that take place during the Depression an era that had such enormous impact on our society and continues to reverberate in modern times . This book did not make me want to run away and join a circus . It did make me happy that movements toward animalless circuses have made a toehold . ",3
"I had some idea of the content of this book before I started reading but was extremely impressed with the author 's skill in opening the world of the DepressionEra circus and the fascinating people who populated it . Her ability to shift between the poignant situation of the aged Jacob and the youthful enthusiasm and passion of the youthful Jacob made this novel 'work ' better than most I 've read in years . The ending did catch me by surprise and was absolutely delightful in all respects . I will commend this book to the attention of anyone who wants to look through a window on the past and the believable people who occupied that world told in the words of a very gifted author . ",4
"WOW Well worth the 5.00 eBook price . I Laughed I Cried and I could not put this book down . It was a amazing story that and I read a lot and have never read anything like this . I can only imagine how Hollywood is going to slaughter this movie so you MUST read this book . It is in my Top 5 Favorite Books of all time list ! ! ! ",4
"It is the present day . An old man either 90 or 93 he ca n't recall lives in a desultory grumpy funk in a generic nursing home treated like a product given impersonal but efficient care and regularly visited by a vaguely attentive dutifully loving but clueless family . He is lonely he misses his wife he longs for attention from his prolific family but understands that they have problems of their own . For solace he relives his early life on a continuous thread his life as a circus veterinarian for a secondrate travelling show.In alternating chapters the author Sara Gruen takes us from the present to 1931 and back showing us a rich history of a good young man whose life is changed forever when his parents die in a car crash leaving him destitute just as he is to stand for his final exams at Cornell . He had hoped to go into practice with his father as a smalltown vet instead at a total loss he bolts jumping a train which turns out to belong to the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth or words to that effect . He is plunged into the colourful quirky world of the circus with all its different intensities and personalities at risk of being summarily thrown off the train he is reprieved by Uncle Al the owneroperatorringleader of the circus when that gentleman learns that Jacob is for all intents and purposes a vet something Uncle Al has coveted for a long time.Jacob falls easily into the life loving working with the animals learning to become one of the circus family and finding an unlikely friend in the dwarf whose living space he shares . Along the way and almost immediately he also falls hopelessly in love with the wife of Uncle Al 's righthand man August . Marlena is the woman of the horses directing her own act with 12 beautiful Arabians in the ring and her grace and beauty completely captures Jacob . He must tread carefully her husband August is borderline insane and insanely jealous.The old Jacob buries himself in these memories frets over the static life of the nursing home and learns to look for one particular nurse who seems to be the only person who really takes an interest in him . She counsels him gently she brings him food that is just a little better than what he 's been getting and we get a glimpse through his eyes of the frustration of the elderly trapped inside a body that wo n't cooperate anymore and surrounded by people who are n't interested in his bright former life.This was an absorbing entertaining book a complete joy . Wellwritten wellresearched it opens a door on a world that most people never thought about and makes the different subjects into real people . It also made me feel empathy toward those in impersonal facilities who live for a familiar interested face and who long to impart to us the lives they led . I could not put this book down . Highly recommended . ",4
"I ca n't believe it took me this long to pick this book up . What a great story and very well written . I always enjoy books that go back and forth between past & present and the author did it brilliantly.The only thing I disliked was reading about the treatment of the animals but that is to be expected with a circus story.Would definitely recommend this book to a friend . I 'm sure the upcoming move wo n't do the book justice but will at the very least draw some new readers . ",4
"This is a wonderful book . Pure entertainment . This will leave you with a soft spot for the circus for trains and for vaudville . We vacationed with a group of friends recently and passed this one around five of us managed to read it in the eight day vacation.it 's that good ! ",4
"I loved this book . My best friend recommended it and originally I did not think much of the description of the story . When I began to read the book though I was totally absorbed into the story and had a tough time putting the book down . This is a definite Must Read ",4
"Sarah Gruen clearly establishes and proves her research of traveling circuses in the 1920s and 30s in this novel . Written from the point of view of the protagonist Jacob Jankowski we find out how he is thrust into the world of circuses after he experiences a lifechanging tragedy in his family the death of his parents in an accident . The book goes back and forth from the present with Jacob being in an assistedliving home to the past where Jacob boards a train and then after being almost booted off begins his world of traveling circuses aboard the Benzini Bros. With nowhere to go and nothing to do he begins the circus life meets several of the key characters such as Walter Camel Marlena August and Uncle Al . While Gruen 's ability as a storyteller is there I felt like the book was a letdown because of the direction it took with the main character.One substantial element to Jacob 's personality is his connection and compassion for animals but I felt like there were times when he is n't the strong leading character he could be and that this compassion for animals is inconsistent . For instance there is a point after becoming the Benzini Bros. personal veterinarian he indicates that his protection for animals is unbending saying and what my father would dowhat my father would want me to dois look after them and I am filled with that absolute and unwavering conviction . Yet there is at least one instance when Jacob has a chance to stop the villain August from abusing Rosie the elephant but fails to take any action despite how ruthless he knows August to be . Odd considering that he makes some rash decisions but none that are of much consequence.It also seemed odd to not focus more on the circus itself as it pertained to Jacob and many of the other characters . Why not focus more on the spectacle of the circus the performers the competition between the rival circuses and the pageantry of the event ? The potential to do this seemed to be there especially the way the 93 year old Jacob reflects on the sweet memories of being in the circus telling many workers in the hospital about those wonderful days with tearyeyed conviction . Instead Gruen uses much of the book 's energy on the forced relationship and wooden love affair between Jacob and leading circus performer Marlena August 's wife . I mean if you are going to write about the circus and do the research on it why not concentrate more attention on events that involve the history of the circus . There was a pronounced shift to the love affair between Jacob and Marlena especially in the novel 's second half and much of the dialogue between the two seemed hokey and silly . It made the book come across as a romance disguised as a circus story.Still it was an enjoyable and relatively quick read . Gruen 's ability to detail scenery and hook the reader into a story is present from the beginning to end and her writing flows smoothly . This is the kind of book that has many redeeming qualities and makes for a good topic of discussion.I just wish the book would n't have sold out on a silly love affair the potential for much more was there.3 12 stars ",2
"Beautifully written . Lots of detail and action . Very poignant passages . Worth the time . You wo n't regret the investment . ",4
"I loved this book . It is very human and lets us see inside the big top and how life was like . A very good read . ",4
"It 's been a long time since a novel about circus life has been published and this excellent book certainly makes up for all of those missing years . It is a well told tale that is in part humorous tragic romantic and heartbreaking . The book uses the same narrative device as Little Big Man that is a very old gentleman remembering the exciting and adventurous days of his youth and the circus he accidentally joined . The characters are extremely well drawn even the minor ones and I 'm sure that the author spend many days delving into circus lore to get the details correct . Being of Polish descent I enjoyed the fact that the protagonist was Polish and I was taken back to my grade school days when a character began reciting the Our Father in Polish ! It amazed me that after all of these years I could still read and pronounce those words correctly . This is simply a wonderful novel and I highly recommend it ! ",4
"It 's not often that a book leaves me cheering out loud but WATER FOR ELEPHANTS did just that.Packed with delightfullyunfolded information about depressionera circuses this book is more than a history of the big top and most definitely more than a mere boymeetsgirl story.For a young man the glamor of running away to join a circus is n't really all that glamourous after all . Gruen shows the seedy side of the big top the desperate times of the depression the multilayered personalities of performers roustabouts owners and even the animals and balances it all delicately with the memories of an old man in an assisted living facility.I loved the way the title tied in to the story . No one apparently carries water for elephants since elephants drink far too much . But in our memories perhaps we all believe we have carried water for our own private elephants.I admit I read it twice in a week inhaling it the first time savoring it the second particularly the ending . Tasty indeed and fivestar all the way . ",4
"I get the creeps when I think of circuses from the mid 1900 's . That was one of the reasons I put off reading this book even though I bought it quite some time ago . Eventually I just had no more unread books left and too long for my paycheck to arrive . I picked it up and barely put it down . I really got me hooked from the start and despite my despise of circuses I really liked it . I do think Gruen could have made Marlena more alive in the story . To me she was just a beautiful girl . Her character never seemed to gain any life . But I especially cared for Jacob and the looking back of the old Jacob . It got me thinking of life nursery homes and love . You might even say it moved me . It did n't cure me though circuses still gives me the creeps ! ",3
"This was a nice fun read especially after reading a book that was emotionally taxing . I could n't help but love Jacob Jankowski . I 'm glad the story ends as it did . It makes the idea of running away and joining the circus seem like a plausible solution when life gets a little too overwhelming ",3
"Water for Elephants is a book that lives up to all the hype . I do n't think you will be disappointed by this book . It 's a well written engrossing story . ",4
"I remember when Cecil B. Demille directed a behemoth circus film called The Greatest Show On Earth in the early 50 's . It had such spectacle and what a starstudded cast headed by the great Jimmy Stewart Cornel Wilde Betty Huttonit was just well awful . Yes AWFUL . And ya know Hollywood decided to give this giant piece of piffle the year 's BEST PICTURE Oscar . I mean it really makes you wonder why people uh powerful people that is go to the trouble of praising something that 's not worth the price of admission . Could it be.to make the film more profitable ? ? ? Could it be.money money and hopefully more money ? ? ? ? To gush and fawn over something so abysmal luring the public into conforming to the propogandic publicity that it finally becomes a pseudomasterpiece not to be missed ? Know what I mean ? Because if you do n't then borrow DONT BUY ! ! Sara Gruen 's Bestselling monkeypoop called Water For Elephants . This is a book that may give the beginning writer hope and much needed optimism . Repeat after me.If Sara Gruen can be a published writer then I can be a published writer . It 's so easy you do n't even have to develope characters to any great extent as long as you have a skeletal outline of your story just scribble it down and then decorate with some tacky sex so it does n't fall into the children 's market . Make sure the story is narrated too but make sure it 's just about as pretentious a narration as you can dream up . Then populate the text with various freaky deaky characters and situations.like animal torture and alcoholism . Then let the 'big boys ' market it for you and wait for the film that will hopefully have an allfemale cast . I mean who cares ? ",0
"This is the first book I got from the Kindle Lending library I read it in two days fantastically written . Believable Characters I loved Water for Elephants I will probably buy it to read again . ",4
"After watching the movie which I liked my sister gave me the book . I was really excited about reading it I know it 's a bestseller and that I was probably going to like it . I admit the real reason that made me curious about this story was that Jacob the protagonist is a veterinarian like me.Jacob is a young man who is about to end his studies when life gives him an awful surprise . His parents are dead and he is left with nothing . Running from his old life he jumps into the train of a circus called The Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth . He is saved from being hurled out of the train only because he 's a veterinarian . The circus have a lot of animals and they need to be taken care of.Jacob is young innocent and a veterinarian with a big love for animals . Taking care of the animals makes him happy and that is how he met Marlena . Beautiful fragile but married.I really liked this book . I loved how the author described life at the circus . It 's obvious she investigated about circus the people who worked at them how they function and their animals.But what I liked more was the writing . The story is told by old Jacob . He 's 90 years old or 93 and his memories about the circus his wife and his life do n't die . He starts narrating the story but suddenly you realize you are reading young Jacob while being at the circus.Overall Water for Elephants was a book that grabbed me from the beginning . Although I wanted more emotion between Marlena and Jacob it 's a romantic story full of action love for animals and a magnificent circus . ",4
"We can read in an author 's note that Sara Gruen has studied elephant behavior . She has more than studied it she has affectingly captured it in Rosie a large gray elephant and the one hope of the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth a down at the heels circus trying to make a go of it during the Depression.Now Rosie was n't too much of a hope because she was lovable but could not follow any command . Rosie 's only unique characteristic was a seemingly unquenchable thirst for lemonade . Her inability to perform was no excuse for the intolerable cruelty visited upon her by August the callous menagerie director who thought nothing of tossing a lit cigarette into Rosie 's open mouth . He did n't limit his abuse to helpless animals but also mistreated his lovely wife Marlena.Spellbindingly read by David LeDoux and John Rutledge Jones Water For Elephants is at its heart the story of three Jacob who has lost his parents in a tragic accident and finds a home with the circus Marlena and of course Rosie . It 's a poignant look at their lives set against an oppressive sometimes degrading circus world and a look back at our country during the grueling Depression years . Most importantly it 's a reminder of the resiliency of human beings and how love can heal . Gail Cooke ",4
"I picked this book up by chance at the bookstore . I was interested at once in the subject and the characters . I know nothing about the circus and was captivated by the descriptions of depression era circuses . This was all new territory for me and to find out in the notes at the end that all this information was based on fact was exciting.I loved having each chapter start with a picture from the Ringling Brothers circus archives . I wasso happy at the ending I truly did not see it coming . Such a feel good story . I have recommended it to many of my friends including my book club . Try it you will like it . ",3
"What a great book ! I picked it up at my library after hearing it suggested at my book club . I did n't want the story to end but I wanted it to end because it was just so powerful and moving . By the end I was crying from shock grief and sheer happiness . The author took a subject that I 've never thought about and gave it so much life . I want to know more about circus trains and old time circus shows . Read it ! ",4
"The books feels like the author was writing it while she was running on the treadmill sometimes things speed up so quickly you can tell the author just got really sick of the segment and wanted to move on with the storyline . It renders the main romance somewhat rushed and insincere at least that 's how I felt . Characters who have known each other for a very short time share passion and requited love for one another vowing to be together forever when one of whom is still married.Some details like the villain being Jewish are completely impertinent to the story but makes you why exactly the author did that . The protagonist is lovable and portrayed in very positive light throughout the novel but his actions are just as villainous and psychotic . At one point where the protagonist gets really jealous he climbs on the roof of a moving train while carrying a knife in his mouth intending to kill the villain in a very really Indiana Joneseque segment that makes you giggle at how superficial the author 's line of thought was.Without revealing too much it 's very close to Moulin Rouge only without the interest tempestuous music and theatricality . If you enjoy sappy romance novels you 'll like it . ",1
"These days whenever I see that a novel is being made into a movie I assume that it must be at least somewhat decent . With the recent release of the movie I decided to pull my copy on loan from my bookshelf and read it before venturing out to the theater to see the movie or more likely now renting it.Water for Elephants is definitely different from the other fiction I normally read . The book takes place after the Great Depression and Gruen did a lot of research surrounding circuses during that time to influence her book . Many of the chapters began with a picture from circus archives which really added to the experience of reading the book . I absolutely loved how the chapters alternated between the main character 's experience in his early 20 's as the circus veterinarian and as a 93yearold man in a nursing home . It really made me think about the stories of my own grandparents who are nearing their 90 's themselves.The diverse cast of characters in the circus also made the drama of circus life a fascinating read . I had no idea of the caste system in circus life the treatment of employees and animals alike and how competitive circus troupes were during this challenging era in U.S. history.I have heard that the book is better than the movie . I admit that I am a bit skeptical about the movie given some of the casting choices for its main characters . But like any avid book lover I do intend to see the movie to see how it compares to one of the best books I 've read so far this year . I highly recommend this book for those who want a story with adventure romance and excitement under the big top . ",3
"This book helped me remember the & # 8220good old days & # 8220 . It was fun remembering how cheap things used to be . Sara helped me see what awaits me in the coming years of my life . It is a great read . ",1
"Sara Gruen 's novel Water for Elephants published in 2007 by Algonquin Books is a good story about a circus traveling in the U.S. during the Great Depression . The narrative carries the novel in spite of the rather shallow character development . Gruen 's description of the historical period is sketchy with a few interesting threads . I bought the book because I was limited in free time and could only read in brief intermittent time periods . The book required minimal attention and was entertaining . I wonder about the editing of the book allowing contemporary jargon to slip into the 1930 's dialogue e.g . Whatever . Water for Elephants is a light beach plane motel novel that I recommend for the casual reader . ",2
"Ugh ! What a total waste of time and money . I can not beleive the author relied so heavily on constant erotica . If she could have left that out it may have been a good story . Do n't waste your money ! ",0
"I do n't write reviews that actually tell you about the book . The book jacket and other readers do that . I will tell you that the characters and story are really well developed and you find yourself reacting to them . Really enjoyed this book . One of the few pieces of real literature I 've read in some time and not at all predictable . ",4
"Water for Elephants is fundamentally a love story set in the almost magic world of the circus laid bare in all its savagery . Told in retrospect by a now aging protagonist it is overlaid with an uncomfortable insight into life in a nursing home . Sarah Gruen does a wonderful job speaking convincingly as both young and old . Her detail is a work of art in itself as it transports us solidly into yesteryear . ",3
"A very unusual book . I could n't put it down . It gives an insight to circus life in the days when they travelled by train . It is written through the eyes of a young lad who traumatised by the death of his parents was unable to complete his final exam to become a vet and accidentally joins the circus . The characters and the animals are all very real . Some you love and some you hate never the animals . Anyone who loves circuses and remembers or would like to know how they used to be will love this book . ",4
"The love triangle at the heart of the narrative comes right out of Sophie 's Choice . A beautiful yet disconnected young woman and her gregarious alpha male husband befriend and uplift a lonely young intellectual . The climax confrontation and subsequent revelation of the true nature of the husband 's problems are blatant plagiarisms . But the thing that tipped me off early on was n't the love triangle . It was instead when a character named Kinko is mistakenly referred to as stinko . You may recall Meryl Streep doing the same thing when referring to Stingo . Unfortuantely for fans of this book the alpha male character August has none of the charms of Kevin Kline.Yet for all its faults I did enjoy the book . It was very hard to put down but that may be because the circus is a favorite subject of mine . ",2
"This story is lovely and you can not put it down . I read every word from cover to cover . There are also authors notes an interview with Sara Gruen and questions for book group discussions.Now back to my title for review . So many of you gave the story away you should not rethink your reviews . Thank Gd I had already chose to read this book when I read Riding Lessons . I had never read one review on this book before I bought it . I wonder what goody Sara has for us next . It will be fun as long as I stay away from reviews ! ",4
"I picked this up from the library 's Best Seller rack with a little doubt about whether I would enjoy it or not . Was I surprised ! ! ! This is one of the most enjoyable novels I 've ever read . I could n't put it down . It contained romance mystery history suspense comedy drama and tragedy all in one story . I went through a gamut of emotions reading this and thoroughly enjoyed the ending . ",4
"He 's 90 or 93 he does n't really remember and it does n't really matter anyway because according to Jacob 's nothing really matters after a few years in an old folks home . His bitter and sarcastic exterior conceals a deep pain and the certain knowledge that the better years of his life have passed by . As Citizen Kane says old age is the only disease that no one wants to be cured of.Things were n't always this way Jacob was young once until an unfortunate series of circumstances ended his hopes of being a vet forever . He is then taken on a journey across the country with a circus it is a fun little book and well worse the trip . The characters have life and everything that fictional characters should have . You 'll find it to be so good that even though you can see the ending coming from three miles away you will not even care.OverallIt is rare that I run across a book this good ",4
"I do n't think the actual plot of this story interested me as much as the incredible setting and description of circus life in the early 1900 's . I LOVE the historic photographs at the end of each chapter because it allowed me to see for myself the lifestyle that the story was trying to recreate . I was n't all that attached to any of the human characters but I loved the animals and actually think my favourite character was the Circus itself . I was able to view the Circus as a living breathing character of it 's own and that is honestly where most of my intrigue for the story came from . I was not prepared for the amount of sexuality and language in the story ! It was completely distracting from the story and I was disappointed how often it would randomly be thrown into the writing . I felt it was almost always unnecessaryit did more to detract from the novel than it ever could have added . I suppose it was a wakeup call for me about the difference between young adult fiction and adult fiction . Had it not been for those two things I would have definitely rated the book a 4 or 5 . ",2
"The idea of running away with the circus definitely appeals sometimes especially when your own life has turned into one but Gruen 's gritty real account of that life is enough to make me tuck in and contain my self to watching Cirque on tv . Scariest part about it is that I know it 's based on the truth not the story but the time . She did great research on travelling circuses.The romance was gorgeous . And while I refuse to give out spoilers I will tell you that she surprised me . I was sure the romantic outcome was going to come out one way and she made the change beautifully.The ending ? Maybe a little saccharin but why not ? You ca n't leave the circus without candy floss . ",3
"I read the book first then saw the movie of course the book was better . But I like both and would recommend the book and the movie . ",3
"Life is the best show on earthI have never read a book about the circus or even gone to a circus for that matter . Yet reading this book through Jacob Jankowsi 's memories I feel like I know what goes on like I 've been many times before.I do n't talk much about those days . Never did . I do n't know why I worked on circuses for nearly seven years and if that is n't a fodder for conversation I do n't know what is.There is so much that happens in Water for Elephants from the point where Jacob discovers his parents are dead and flunks his veterinary exam to the point he runs away to the circus and unknowingly at that . Soon he discovers that the circus has so much to offer and it 's own perils as well . When he meets Marlena and begins developing feelings for her he finds himself standing on thin ice with her husband August and when things begin to turn sour it seems he 's not the only one out to get him.I am ninety . Or ninetythree . One or the other.But there 's another side to this story the Mr. Jankowski who lives in the nursing home after the rest of his family seems to have forgotten about him . The man who does n't quite remember how old he is . Who does n't like the 'food ' if you can call it that . The man who still remembers his days at The Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth.The story was well crafted and encompassed all the different elements of life in the circus . Some actual photographs found at the beginning of each chapter added to the 'realness ' of the plot and make the whole store seem even more realistic . Similarly the characters were well developed and the patriarchal hierarchy of circus performers vs. workmen was explored also . I loved to see how Marlena became a stronger character throughout the novel eventually taking a definite stand against her mentally instable husband . And Jacob ? Well during the whole story he was there to learn the ropes and was always there to stand for what was right for the animals he treated and the people he became friends with.CONCLUSIONOverall I really enjoyed Water for Elephants . I felt completely immersed in the circus lifestyle and was always desperately wanting to flick through the pages and find out what was happening next . Next on my list is to see the movie and see how it compares . ",3
"Sara Gruen 's talent as a writer was wasted on gratuitous violence and cruelty . It is a shame when a good writer sells out for a potential movie . This is cheap read . ",0
"I 'm not sure what to say about this book . I enjoyed it it 's a cute little historical fiction but it was n't fantastic . just a few random thoughts on the book The most interesting character was Walter the dwarf clown and he had a very limited role . Jacob the narrator I liked more as a 93yo than as a 23yo and I never really felt the connection between him and Marlena . The grime of the circus itself was part of what kept me sucked in that was brilliantly described . In the end I felt a great deal of sympathy for August he was n't a good man by any means but he also was fighting some serious demons.Like I said I liked the book but I do n't feel I need to run out and watch the movie now . ",3
"i enjoyed reading this book . Although it will not go down in the ranks of a great American Classic it is still agood read . There was a feeling for the desperation of the period and the atypical lives of the circus . Some of the characterizations were a bit shallow and somewhat predictable the plot manages to keep the reader engaged . I enjoyed the contrasting chapters of the young protagonist and his later elderly self . The ending is sweet but quite unplausible . All of these things considered I still gave this book an overall 4 rating . ",3
"I have just started reading again and I decided this would be my first book in years.I was not disappointed as the author paints a vivid picture of the characters with an adequate storyline . If you are looking for large adventures in the Circus then this book is probably not for you.. but if you are interested in a good read with some very interesting characters then I recommend it.It brings you into a world that you likely never knew existed . ",3
"This book stays with you long after reading it . I could n't have been much better than this . ",4
"My wife comes from a circus background going back to her grandfather . She read it her mother amd father read it too . The verdict ? Ms. Gruen is spot on . For me the layman it was a great read and well researched and totally believable . Other than that I ca n't improve on what everyone has said . ",4
"i wasnt expecting this to be so much about the elephant . i wish it wouldve been more about the main characters . but all in all a good book ",2
"This has become a must read with so many favorable reviews I kept looking forward to being captured by it . It really is two stories in one book . The old man 's story is wonderful . My father resides in a residency care facility and the insights of the old man made me think about what my father is facing . The loss of dignity and the battling soul struck home.In my view the main story was only fair . The story seemed to be telegraphed and I could not get my self terribly interested . ",3
"I liked the book . It was very different from what I usually pick but I have heard so many people talking about it I had to buy it . I 'm glad I decided to read it . ",3
"Very good reading and I could not put my Kindle down . Good insight into circus life . Will have to research for other books from this author . ",4
"Great book enjoyed it . Thought it started out a little slow but once I got into it could n't put it down . ",3
"What an enjoyable book to read and I learned about the circus . Very funny and it kept my attention . I have passed this around to all of my friends . Great read ! ",4
"Although this is not my typical genre I was completely taken with this novel . I found it especially fascinating that so much of this book was based on actual circus history . Thank you Ms. Gruen for the incredible research on train circuses and depressionera life . ",4
"Loved the book could n't put it down ! I will recommend it to friends it will be difficult to watch the movie and not nit pick the details . ",4
"I could n't put it down and was sad when it was over . I do n't think I 'll even see the movie because it would HAVE to be a letdown ! ",4
"A little of slow go but once the characters where established the interest took off . A very sweet ending with fond memories . ",3
"On the simplest level all I can say is that it did n't amuse me and I could n't force myself to finish it . But I 'm a hard sell for fiction and I can see by the other reviews that many people loved it . Lucky them ! On a slightly more analytic level I 'd say that what prevented me from enjoying the book was the voice of the narrator who is supposed to be a man in his nineties remembering his youth in the circus . I 'm a man approaching seventy with some circus experiences as a teenager in Iowa and as the father of a circus acrobat in the Cirque de Soleil era . I found the voice of the narrator unconvincing extremely unconvincing as a male of the species and as a male American of the 1930s and 1940s . I could n't get past that central implausibility . I found myself scoffing at the sensibilities of the pseudomale narrator at every emotional turn of this quite melodramatic novel . ",1
"I could not have loved it more . Water for Elephants is one of those wonderful novels that has an interesting setting but it does n't let the setting take over the story . It is a novel about the people in that place and the people of Benzini 's circus took over my mind and stay with me still.Jacob begins Water for Elephants alone . Orphaned by his immigrant parents he is weeks away from his Cornell graduation but he simply can not return to the life he has known . He jumps aboard a moving trainthe train carrying the Benzini circus to its next production . No one on the circus cares that Jacob did n't finish his final exams . The diploma he is told is just a piece of paper and nobody here gives a damn about that . You 're on a show now . The rules are different.In fact the circus seems to have no rules at all . Jacob somehow finds other kind souls among the misfits and these people work together to protect themselves and the animals . The villiansUncle Al and Augustare well described and threedimensional . You understand why they behave the way they do . These villians are not cookiecutter images and their realworld sensibilities make them even more frightening . ",4
"As most previous reviewers have said this is a rich tale of circus life in the '30 's . The protaganist Jacob is appealing with personality and real human emotion . I feel the author Ms. Gruen has wellresearched everythingcircus in writing this book.I felt while reading this book I was actually seeing what transpired in my mind 's eyeI could see the rough characters come alive and could smell the sawdust cookin grease animals and popcorn . I felt what the characters felt when they fell upon hard times . This book also opened my eyes regarding how a rough slice of life a small circus can be.Bring on the circus parade ! ",4
"I thoroughly enjoyed this book ! The remembrances of an old man of his time in a piece of Americana the travelling circus . Sara Gruen makes us feel the excitement of the Big Top the pain sadness and joy of the people in it and conveys the dire circumstances of the Great Depression so you can almost taste the dust . I wanted to hurt some of the characters and hug others . The ending is divine . ",4
"I loved this book very entertaining easy to follow enjoyed this book and ca n't wait to see the movie . I want to read more of her books . ",4
"Very wellwritten story with a realistic look at the life of traveling circuses in the '30 's and '40 's . Also some insightful thoughts on the process of aging and how we treat elderly folks . Very enjoyablecould n't put it down . ",4
"I had heard of this book for some time and had always wanted to read it when I saw it available for Prime members I had to download it ! What a great story and very well written . I would recommend it to anyone . ",4
"This book was ok but not on my repeat read list . She is a good writer and the characters are realistic . ",3
"I usually do n't read fiction but this kept popping up as a suggestion for me . I really enjoyed it . Great writing and great story . ",4
"Water for Elephants is about an old man at the end of his days reflecting upon his life and the events that lead him to run away and join the circus right before he finishes college . His story goes back and forth between his modern day stay at a nursing home and his days in his early 20s during the Great Depression traveling around the country with the Great Benzini Brothers Circus.Sara Gruen does a phenomenal job of painting a vivid portrait of Depression era America and of the end of the golden age of circus life in the USA . The Photos that head each chapter are fun little bonuses that let you see the actual performers of this time as well as some of the settings in which the book takes place.The characters come to life and are vivid portrayals of heroes and villians . The relationships formed amongst all the characters are memorable and keep you wanting more . A page turner that does a good job of keeping you interested by flipping back and forth between past and present.5 star recommendation . ",4
"I am not a big fan of books on tape . My husband ison long trips we listen . If you dont mind listening to an old man with wet phlegm in his throat for hours go for it . Since I picked this tape based on the reviews from Amazon I suffered through 5 dvd 's so far . The story is not interesting or enlightening . A bad story can be read thru rather quickly but on tape listening at a horribly slow pace.well it is like water torture . ",0
"The book was very interesting because of the time difference from young to old man . The ending was great . Not expected . ",4
"This book is simply wonderful . A mixture of humor and Grace . It will make you laugh cry . It uses captivating language that makes you feel like you 're really in the circus . A wonderful read I 'd recommend to everyone . ",4
"We read this as a book club . SOme members went to the movie to compare and were disappointed in the movie . Book is great . ",3
"Very very good novel . It was such a moving story and tugged at my heartstrings and kept me on the edge of my seat . ",4
"A compelling story set in Depressionera circus train history . The brutality beneath the illusion of the show 's spectacle drives the action with a high level of suspense . You 'll be tempted to rip through it in a single session . ",4
"This will be short and sweet . I 'm normally and action story reader biographies business literature and everything by Cormack McCarthy . This is far from the type of book I would give a read . I gave this a try because it was an inexpensive Kindle best seller and loved it . Great love story circus story and character development . The best part is the happing ending.If you have read Cormack McCarthy you know you need a happy ending from time to time . ",4
"i loved this book . the way the author captures the essence of Jacob in his later years as well as his youth . the novel ignites your senses and awakens the soul . i loved it ! ",4
"I do n't consider myself a litsnob by any means . I love fun breezy reads like many readers out there . I have read ` em high and low . There are times when I just want an escapist read . But given the perimetersthose reads usually deliver the goods . Though the stories may be a tad simple.Here we have a book that 's been out a while . Supposedly one with some substance . So we have a guy who winds up joining the circus after ditching an Ivy league education in the Depression years . I can go with it . No problem there . But then we have the host of characters in the circus itself . Some of this is good readingbut thenwe have problems of cliched predicatable writing wedged between sections of rather betterthanaverage writing . And all too many flat characters with little substance.Much of this appears in this story . That 's the problem . Besides Jacob is just not all that engaging to me or a convincing character . And the story comes off predictable and rather weak . So it 's a passable beach read.Given the kind of overthetop and unsubstantiated praise this novel has received surely I ca n't be the only one who feels this way and I ca n't help but notice than whenever there is a unfavorable review of this book there will be an outpouring of five star reviewsone after anotherthat are all two or three sentences of praise and little real commentary.Coincidence ? Again not an altogether bad read but this is no KITE RUNNER or actually SNOW FLOWER AND THE SECRET FAN two far better reads than this . ",2
"Loved the book . Kept me interested the whole time . Could never see the movie after reading this.could n't watch the animal stuff . Hard enough to read about the animalsca n't imagine watching it . This is a must read on my list . ",4
"I come here to write this review of course very late.and so perhaps many will not read what I have to say about this book.Being an avid reader with interests all over the map so to speak I have read GodKnowsHowMany stories in my 62+ years . Some deeply moving others barely creating or leaving the slightest ripple in my conscious brain . Some seemingly with the power to change the way I see things or think about thingssometimes subtly and in others there are major thought differences after finishing the book . This book has affected me deeply.The last book to touch me this way was some months back when I read The Piano Shop on the Left Bank by Thad CarhartThe Piano Shop on the Left Bank Discovering a Forgotten Passion in a Paris Atelierwhich I heartily recommend to you.With Water for Elephants Sara Gruen creates the longforgotten days of the Train Circus and all that life entailed in those daysfrom the impossible setups knockdowns and in many cases hasty retreats from any particular chosen town before the authorities arrived upon the scene.Hard Luck Days certainly would be a fitting genre to place this awesome story into . And of course with the depression etc . they truly were hard luck days for everyone involved with the exception of perhaps Uncle Al with his penchant for stealing skimming using and abusing everyone on the show . We also come to know August and his sickness that continually creates misery and unhappiness both for him and also for those closest to him . There is Marlena August 's wife and performing partner with her performing horses and later her act with Rosie the Elephant a charming and allknowing wonderful beast if ever there was one . There are dozens and dozens of other characters distributed throughout all levels of the show from performers right on down to the dungshovelers and the guys who do nothing but put up and take down the tents for the big top day in and day out endlessly working like dogs for sometimes nothing . We meet the midget clown Kinko also known as Walter and are shown into his rather twisted life and also we meet Camel an unfortunate for sure addicted to and dying from Jamaican ginger paralysis a common and cruel death from drinking bad alcohol . We meet and deal with the sadistic Blackie and witness his ways with dealing with those done with on the traveling show.Sara Gruen has created a most wonderfully real environment and time for this story to inhabit one that clearly allows one to see feel smell and witness at what seems first hand how life was for those who lived the Big Top life.a marvelous talent for a writer . If she were never to write another story this one surely would guarantee her a place in the literary hall of fame.a beautiful touching funny serious deeply moving look at circus life in the 30 's and also a peek today into Jacob Jankowski 's life as it is and luckily also what it is about to become again.Truly this is one of the Finest books that I have had the pleasure to read.a Perfect 10 ! Incidentally Sara Gruen 's new book is coming out within a couple weeks titled Ape House . Luckily I received an advance copy from the Vine Program to read and review and I will be starting it just as soon as I finish here with this review of Water for Elephants.Sara Gruen.You may never read this but I wish to Thank You personally for giving us this truly Lovely Wonderfully Entertaining book . It is a true gem.~operabruinAlso for those who may be interested to know this wonderful book is currently being filmed for its theatrical movie release sometime in 2011..there 's NO DOUBT that I 'll be there on it 's Opening Night ! ",4
"This is an engaging fast paced story of a veterinarian in a circus during Prohibition . The plot tension is wellhandled and intense . There is plenty of likeable characters as well as villains . And of course animals . It is wellresearched and the setting circus train stopping in many towns is realistic as are the many details of circus life . I 'd thought of circus culture as highly cohesive but this novel showed serious social stratification . The characterization is about that of the best genre fiction though the book is n't genre . The ending is a bit of a stretch but a positive one . The book was hard to put down . An excellent read . ",2
"I usually do n't read mass market best selling paperbacks written by women . Nothing wrong with women writers I just do n't read them . A friend at work asked if I wanted to read this book and her previous recs were mostly good.I really enjoyed this story . It was a nice change of pace.If you are a guy read this book cause you then have opportunity to see What girls want in a man and why girls act like they do . That seems like a blanket statement but being a guy I would not have done many things the hero did and I could n't understand why he thought what he did and was so against sound advice til I realized the author was a women and she was trying to write from a guys perspective . Of course what I have written may not be true and there are surely arguments against but I think I am right.I think you should read this book and am looking forward to the movie ",3
"I bought this for a Reddit gift exchange . However I have read this book and it 's really engrossing . Highly recommend ! ",4
"I read this book hearing nothing but good things and the fact that I never read books about the circus gave me cause for concern . Never judge a book by its cover I loved it ! The details of circus life are so interesting along with the plot and characters . A book I will never forget . So good I gave it to my parents to read both in their 60 's and they loved it as well . ",3
"This book was so well researched that you are transported effortlessly back in time with Jacob . Upon learning that most of the incidents in the book are true just makes this already incredible book all the more awe inspiring . It is impossible not to get caught up in Jacob 's life with the circus . The characters he encounters during his circus days are so real sometimes you think you can actually smell them but it 's his relationship with the animals especially Rosie the elephant that particularly touch your heart . You wo n't easily forget Rosie and you 'll be glad when Jacob ca n't either . There is nothing more satisfying than when you finish a book and you feel like you also were part of the adventure . I am so glad I was packed and ready . ",4
"Ms. Gruen has crafted an intriguing plot with complex wellrounded characters . She 's done her research on life in the circus in the early 20th century and it shows in her beautifully textured scenes . The love triangle was a nice bonus . Water For Elephants captivated me from beginning to end . ",4
"Thoroughly enjoyed reading about Jacob and his life as a circus vet . The train rides from place to place were most interesting As were his trysts . If you 're a circus fan you would definitely find it very good . ",3
"I was apprehensive about reading this book since I watched the movie first . I did n't want to compare and then end up with mixed feelings . I 'm so happy that I did watch the movie first because I feel I had a better view of the books layout . The story kept me on the edge of my seat even though I had expectations for the events outcomes . I love that the story of Jacob was related to the bible and I commend the author for that . Amazing book . I love the feeling after reading an outstanding book and this is surely one of them . Excellent job . ",4
"I love any book that changes subjects or character 's voice each chapter . It kept me wanting to read it . It was n't a rereader but I definitly love the time pieces that represent a historical era and place . I have n't seen movie yet but recommend this book for the love of history and romance . ",3
"I had absolutely no clue what Water for Elephants by Canadian author Sara Gruen was about but did hear it had already been made into a movie . I felt I approached the book without prejudice as I started reading.An interesting setting and era sets this book apart from other light summer reads . I felt it was a bit underwhelming given all the 5star Amazon reviews it received . I did n't completely engage with the protagonist Jacob Jankowski although some of the other side characters were quite welldrawn KinkoWalter Camel & Uncle Al come to mind.I liked the use of flashbacks from the ageing Jacob but the romance was a bit facile and predictable . And I did think of the Sophie 's Choice love triangle before reading it here in other reviews.I liked all the bits about the circus workers animals and the process of putting on the show . Otherwise I felt it was a good story written in an okay style . I probably just expected more after all the rave reviews it got . ",3
"Just as great as the movie.. a must read ! Would gladly read it again any chance I get . Great job ! ",4
"I am certain that there are still those out there who like me had not yet read this novel because it centers around a circus . Do yourselves a favor like me and take this excellent journey with this gifted author . Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen is a very moving story about relationships and family . When Jacob Jankowski loses his family he actually joins the circus . Not because he wanted to but because it presented itself . Fortuantely Jacob was studying to become a veterinarian and the circus was full of animals . The story is told from the perspective of Jacob as an elderly man and Jacob as a young man.The relationships that Jacob forms during this excellent novel form the corserstone of the story . I found myself caring about a grouchy dwarf and his 3legged dog as well as an elephant and a cast of numerous colorful characters . The evocative descriptions of the circus itself the Benzini Brothers a wannabee Ringling Brothers during the Depression actually put you on a railcar with the smell of dust all around you . This is certainly no glamorous lifestyle and Gruen does an exceptional job of providing vivid imagery . The menagerie that Jacob helps care for are an important piece of this wide ranging cast that features individuals that are easy to hate and aome that are easy to love . Jacob meets Marlena who is married to the evil August and the relationships that ensue become increasingly complicated.I now know more about circuses that I ever knew I wanted to . I am glad that I do because the learning was all part of the great fun to be had here . This is a very entertaining and compelling book . I could not read it fast enough yet I felt myself wanting to slow down to enjoy it all the more . I rate this a highly recommended 5 stars . Enjoy ! ",4
"I really enjoyed this book it is interesting and hold 's your interest . The premise of the book is creative I recommened this read . ",3
"I read a lot of nonfiction and most of the fiction I read is mysteries instead of literature novels . So when Water For Elephants was loaned to me with a recommendation I put off reading it . The movie which I did n't see got underwhelming reviews which made me postpone it further . I think I read two new mysteries before finally picking up this book.And then was I surprised . I loved it ! It is imaginative and takes me into the wonderfully described world of a 1930 's thirdrate train traveling circus . If this world seems a little grungy I remind myself that at the beginning of the 1930 's only 10 % of rural homes had electricity for hot water heaters . Animal rights ? Nonexistent . Workers ' rights ? Taking its first baby steps . Occupational safety do n't make me laugh . Bigotry ? How can fiction be worse than the truth . And over it all the Great Depression with it 's unrelenting desperation.And these are illustrated in a heckofa story . The plot does n't just advance it gallops it whoops . It has romance but not implausible romance . Jacob Jankowski is the protagonist telling the story with a great lastminute twist in flashbacks that I thought were handled well . As a matter of fact the only part of the story that was too unrealistic for me was Jacob 's rush to run away from all he knew to literally though unintentionally run away to join the circus . And there he meets Marlena a circus star with her trained horse team and Augustus her equal parts charismatic and brutal husband.I very much recommend this novel . I 'm going to have to buy my own copy ! ",4
"I sure am glad I never ran away to join the Circus . Reading this book I discovered it is avery Hard Life . However I did like how the story went back and forth from the present to the past . I really felt bad for the animalsespecially the Elephant.I got very fond of some of the characters . Felt like I was going through their Happy and Sad times . Sara is a good story tellershe kept my interest throughout the whole book . ",3
"I am your casual reader . I read no more than ten books a year . This was the second book I read this year and so far it 's the best book I 've read this year but it is n't as good as the reviews say it is . I enjoyed the bits about the old man 's life more than I did than when he talked about his youth . Left lurching in an oldage home this man tries to fend for himself when he 's made to sit with a fellow gentleman he does n't quite like . The only thing the old man knows is that he 's old and even goes as far as wishing that the reader never gets to this age . The introduction of the novel is very good and it 's easy to read although at times when he 's reminiscing you may get confused . The names of animals and humans can be a tad confusing . This book is a good bet for some while I can think of some people not liking this.Fellow casual readers you 're not missing much try Frank McCourt 's Angela 's Ashes . However for those with piqued interests you must be wondering why your friends never spoke about this book I wondered so too only until I finished reading the book . I think people are liking it more because of how compact it is in encompassing two lives . The author 's youthful days are nothing like mine.P.S I in not one way undermine the collective intelligence of a casual reader for I am one.Applauseplease . ",2
"Definitely worth reading . It offers a great look at life in an ontheroad circus but it also provides a good look at what goes on in the mind of a 90something who has seen and lived a lot but who believes he has been put out to pasture.I would have given the book probably five stars if it had n't contained so much profanity and scatological language . The old man 's tale would have done a very good job of living on its own without that . ",2
"As a person in his 70s who deals with a motherinlaw in her 90s I found much Jacob 's trials in the nursing home close to home . That he could escape into the memory of his youthful connection with the circus was probably a life saver for him.Ms Gruen did a masterful job of separating and at the same time blending Jacob 's experiences in his youth with those in his present state of being 90 or 93.It is worth reading this book all the way through to get to a surprising and wonderful end that I shall not reveal so as not to spoil it for others.Ms Gruen obviously researched circuses . Her attention to detail both when she wrote about the circus and also when she wrote about the nursing home helped make the story realistic.All in all it was well written and held my attention . ",3
"I was really looking forward to reading this book especially after seeing the previews for the upcoming movie . I must say that it is one of the worst books I have ever read and I have been an avid reader my entire life . I could n't relate or get attached to the main character Jacob except at certain points when he was elderly . I actually felt very embarrassed for the author while reading the many squalor erotica scenes that did nothing to help me connect or care for any of the characters . I was expecting a heartfelt romance but the characters including the love interest Marlena are so one dimensional that I found the whole thing absurd and unbelievable . I kept trying to get into it and hoped it would get better as it went along but no such luck . If you must read it try to borrow it instead of buying or see if you can pick up a cheap copy at a thrift store . Better yet spend your time reading something with a convincing story and engaging characters instead . ",0
"Even people who say I only read nonfiction can enjoy this entertaining novel which is rich with fascinating details about life in a traveling circus during Prohibition and the Depression . For example circus members stocked up on booze in Canada and sneaked it across the border into the US by storing it in the middle of the train car carrying camels because camels spit and customs agents did n't want to mingle with them . Against an unusual background the fictional characters humans and other animals weave a story that keeps readers turning the pages . ",4
"For months everytime I was in a bookstore I found that I would gravitate toward this book read the back and place it back on the shelf . I should have listened to my instinct . After many positive recommendations from friends and reading the reviews I relunctantly check the book out at the local library . I started reading with an open mind . After about 200 pages I phone my friend to ask her if I was missing something because I just did n't care of the story and I could n't seem to find a connection with any of the characters . At this point she instructed me to stop reading because of you do n't like it now there is n't anything earth shattering that will happen that will make you change your mind . I did n't listen and she was right . ",1
"There is a reason this book is so popular . Not only is a swiftmoving adventure a historical fiction but it 's a a love story about life . And Sarah Gruen is extremely adept at vividly describing the interior life not only of the circus and circus life she so carefully researched but also the interior psychological experience of her characters including Jacob the lead character even as an old man . She enters into his experience so deeply that it is impossible as a reader not to as well ! You see the nursing home the circus the animals the rough competition and the connection.Sarah Gruen has created a book which transcends the circus and highlights the importance of life and living no matter how old we are.This is indeed summer reading and one of the best books I 've read all year . ",4
"I have been disappointed by popular fiction especially when there is a movie but not this time . Although I would not recommend it for young readersthe story is believable and enthralling . The writing if full of quotable proseand I loved the accuracy of the descriptions of the elder Jacob . ",2
"I love this novel . I started reading a printed version but I had a hard time distinguishing character voices as it was not always marked . And then there were alternating young and then old point of view chapters . Before giving up because I have the same type of challenge when I read Amy Tan novels I switched to the audio book on tape and LOVED the book . One of the best novels I 've read . And the voiceover talent who read the audio version is a very very good storyteller . ",4
"Do you know how difficult it is to run and cry at the same time ? Good books do that do me . And this was a good book.Brilliant actually.That 's the best way to describe it . The words themselves the characterization the anticipation . It 's brilliant.Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen is the story of Jacob Jankowski at twentythree and at ninety or ninetythree . At twentythree he ran away and joined the circus after his parents were killed in an accident . He had been studying to be a vet and was all but final exams . In the circus Jacob encounters brutality unexpected kindness and love . At ninety or ninetythree Jacob 's in a nursing home.The story fits well with Resurrection with it 's themes of dignity redemption and anticipation . Twentythreeyearold Jacob 's Resurrection scene spread the resurrection and transformation to others . The Jacob in the end of the book is different from the Jacob in the beginning and his transformation allows him to step in and fight for others . He may not always succeed in the way he desires but he hands resurrection to others . It 's a story about coming home.It 's a story about dignity . Gruen frames the story so that you are hit by the fact that this old man left to drool over Jello his last few years is the twentythreeyearold Jacob in the circus . These stories are n't just stories . They 're stories of people we 've forgotten about . It made me remember sitting at tea with my grandmother listening to her stories . I wish I 'd written them down.It 's about the dignity of the outcasts . In Depressionera America especially on a circus midgets drunks and the bottomofthebarrell working class were the outcasts . They were n't needed in society . They were easily disposed of . Because of this Jacob becomes a Christfigure restoring the dignity of a midget and a drunk fighting for the oppressed both human and animal.Gruen 's strongest point I think is her ability to build anticipation . One scene captures it Grady has bad news for Jacob . In waiting for Grady to spill it Jacob notices the two drops of grease leaking from Grady 's hamburger . Brilliance in these little details . The reader namely me wants to shake Grady by the shoulders and scream at him to tell already ! It 's also about what Gruen does n't write where she holds back . I think as writers sometimes we think we have to fill in every detail . For example in a fight scene Gruen does n't give a blowbyblow . Rather she focuses on the confusion of the protag Jacob his swirling thoughts a moment of pain here or there his inability to stop hitting . Rather than observing the fight as you would a movie you 're caught up in the hero . I love this . ",4
"There is a reason that this book has so many 5 star reviewsI avoided reading this for a while because I did n't think that I 'd be interested in novel set in a circus during the depression but I finally picked it up after yet another person told me how good it was . I 'm so glad that I did ! It really is the best thing that I 've read in a long time . I quickly became engrossed and could not put it down . Do yourself a favor and give it a try you will not be disappointed . Oh and I LOVED the ending ! ",4
"This book is one of the best books I 've read in a long while . It spoke to me on so many levels ! It made me laugh it made me cry it held me captive from cover to cover ! This Author really did her homework and it shows in her details and imagery she paints for you . If you say I saw the movie it was n't all thatwell then you need to forget everything you saw or heard on the silver screen and pick up the novel ! Everyone knows Novels are ALWAYS better than the movie ! This one especially . When I read this book I would laugh out loud and my Boyfriend who is NOT a reader would say What 's so funny and I 'd tell him a snippet about what I was reading.and before long he and his 15 year old son were reading it right after me ! I enjoyed it very much and I believe you will too or I would n't recommend it ! Sincerely.Heather Lynn Osting Author ",4
"I. SettingDepression era . The glory days of the circus . A time when a plethora of men outofwork combined with a plethora of families looking for amusement and a modicum of freaks . Let 's face it throughout history mankind has been sprinkled with a modicum of physical and mental freaks . Their ability to find job satisfaction fluctuates but they 're always out there.Caveat As a child in Wisconsin I certainly attended a circus or two and dutifully watched the nowdefunct Great Circus Parade on TV but have never visited the Circus World Museum in Baraboo . I am just as much an outsider as the rest of you unless you are a Flying Wallenda in which case I am a much bigger outsider.The circus of Water for Elephants is the name of circus which is certainly a mouthful . To the eyes of this nonFlying Wallenda it appears to be pretty typical of the time especially once it gets an elephant . More on that later.II . PlotJust a brief synopsis here since you have likely seen the film read the book or are planning to do so . Jacob Jankowski protagonist runs away to join the circus after his parents die in a car accident . Perhaps unwisely he does so just before finishing his veterinary degree . He meets August the bipolar head trainer . He falls in love with Marlena August wife . After the circus picks up an elephant named Rosie Jacob uses his profound understanding of animals and the Polish language to bond with her . And with Marlena . Since August is a total jackhole though this relationship is doomed.Luckily for everybody the circus owner Big Al is known for cutting corners and his spendthrift ways end in total calamity . The animals get loose August is trampled to death and Jacob sweeps Marlena off to live happily ever after . They have children he works for a real circus Ringling and end up ditching the nursing home for yet another circus.III . CharactersI could n't help but picture Robert Pattinson in my head as I read this book and I hated that . Same for Reese Witherspoon and Christoph Waltz . Nothing to be done but I wish it had been left to my imagination.Though I found the premise a little unbelievable on the whole literally running away to join the circus ? I did empathize with Jacob . Preparing for a profession that requires you to stick your hand up a cow 's butt is hard enough . Once your parents are tragically killed ? Forget about it.The JacobMarlenaAugust love triangle did n't convince me either but perhaps that was residual cringing from Jacob 's sexual awakening facilitated by the ladies of the cooch tent.I should also apologize to the man sitting next to me on the bus that one day . Sir if you happened to notice that I was reading about a man getting deflowered I DO APOLOGIZE.Honestly the character I liked best was old Jacob . No my favorite was not the elephant . I did not cheer when she killed August nor at the many times the reader was reminded that ELEPHANTS ARE PEOPLE TOO . Save it for Greenpeace . Old Jacob an imperfect narrator combined the indignities of old age with a fierce desire to keep living . He does n't remember how old he is nor which of his many relatives was supposed to take him to the circus camped next to the nursing home . But he 's feisty enough to scoot himself over when no one else will and it 's that same sort of selfdetermination that won us two world wars darnit ! wipes tear from eyeMaybe I 'm just nostalgic for the grandpa I never had . It 's like that scene from The Royal Tenebaums when Royal reads the gravestone of a man who died heroically on a sinking ship . The viewer is led to believe this is a relative of Royal 's . He then says something like What a man . I wish I knew him.Well I wish I knew Jacob Jankowsky . After he finished all that silliness with the circus.IV . StyleGruen uses a framing device in which the bulk of the book is recalled through the eyes of the nowaged main character . The parallel ? Presentday Jacob is eagerly anticipating a trip to the circus whereas pastday Jacob worked many years on a circus . I do love the framing device confusing as it is when you start the book . More or less than in medias res ? Discuss.I appreciate a single protagonistpoint of view kept constant throughout the book . I would not have liked to read a chapter told by Marlena or the elephant or the dwarf . It 's hard enough keeping these people and animals straight with just one narrator.The ending was a little tidy for my tasteI kept expecting Marlena to miscarry or die in childbirth . That their long and productive union disappointed me probably speaks more to my own predilection for dystopian fiction where EVERYBODY dies than Gruen 's storytelling abilities.The pacing was good and you definitely knew when the book climaxed . I appreciated the reallife archival circus photographs scattered throughout as well as the small details of circus life the cookhouse flag the water buckets the segregation of performers and labor . Who knew that 50000 people were paralyzed after drinking Jamaica ginger extract ? Not me even after watching the entire first season of Boardwalk Empire . HBO fail.ConclusionWater for Elephants is a slice of life novel . In this case Depressionera circus life . My criticisms aside it 's a worthy read . While researching this blog entry ie reading the Wikipedia article I learned that this novel originated in NaNoWriMo . If given one month to write a book I would certainly do much much worse . ",3
"Water for Elephants draws you in from the very beginning . The story is fast paced and details circus life during the Depression years making the reader see that for many the circus was a way to keep food in one 's stomach when others had no jobs and were going hungry.Gruen does a good job of detailing the factual side of operating and working a circus while keeping the story engaging . The only minor problem is that characterization is a bit weak especially regarding Jacob the main character.The book contains photos from circus archives which is a nice touch . ",3
"I had no or low expectations about this book . I did n't know anything about the plot . It was on the bestseller lists which does n't necessarily make it a good book but I was a little intrigued about all the peripheral hubbub about it . If I had known this book really had to do with circuses That 's not a plot spoiler . I do n't know if I would 've started this book . I 'm so glad I took the chance . I found it just like a steam engine read the book it took a little bit of effort to get rolling but once it started it just kept picking up speed and going and going and I kept waiting for it to slow but it did n't . I was amazed that someone actually wrote this story it was so good . I read it fast and furiously and tensely anticipating what was coming next . I also really appreciated the discussion with the novelist after the novel itself . I enjoyed her explanations . Kudos to Sara Gruen . ",4
"A lovely easy book to read . Good story . Makes one think about how we treat our elderly and would we want to be set aside like this . Like happy endings too ! ",4
"Great read very hard to put down great insight into circus life at the time.looking forward to seeing the movie ",4
"Wonderful book.I learned more about life in the circus than I ever thought.Well writtenand hope to read all of her books soon.It deserved to be on the NY Times best seller list . ",4
"Circus life during the American Depression . Told in the first person by Jacob Jankowski a young college boy who is suddenly orphaned and penniless and finds himself literally on board the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth ! There 's a prologue where we discover a secret which Jacob has kept for seventy years then we begin the story alternating between 1931 and the modern day with an elderly Jacob.Very easy to readI found myself flicking pages quickly . Gruen seems to capture the circus 's attraction and glitz as well as it 's often uncomfortable reality . The hierarchy from the roustabouts to the performers and bosses is fascinating and Gruen 's descriptions bring to life the days when circuses had trains conjuring up images from Dumbo ! The novel pulls you in starting off slowly and ends up unputdownable as you have to find out what eventually happenedhappens . I found the contrast between the way the Jacob of 'then ' and 'now ' is treated both startling and thought provoking and ultimately I just really enjoyed reading about something I had little knowledge of with a good twist in the tale . ",3
"In this day and age there are few books that I love but Water for Elephants is one of the best books I have read this year . The story is told from an old man in a retirement home reflecting on his life as a circus veterinarian . Not only is the fictional story intriguing the history of circus life in the 1930s is riveting in this book . ",4
"Everyone was talking about the movie so I decided to get the book instead . Awesome idea to write about the old circus days and what a great way to end the book . ",4
"This book can be pretty graphic for younger kids . I was a little surprised when I read it . Our oldest was 12 when she finished it her teacher had recommended it . I talked to my d about it and she was fine many things depend on the maturity of the child . It is a very good story and I cried during the movie . ",3
"Too graphic for kids too infantile for adultsthis was just an OK book . I read it because several people recommended it for our book club at work . Many of the characters were so badly drawn and onedimensional that I lost interest midstory . The August character in particular was the worst creation he 's a ripoff of Nathan from William Styron 's Sophie 's Choice . Marlena is just sequined cardboard . I enjoyed the setting because there 's something fascinating about circuses or else I would have rated this lower than 3 stars . For a book supposedly about people who care about animals it does n't have touching moments or much emotion . Vastly overrrated novel . ",2
"Well written and entertaining . Good research on subject area and then wonderful character studies . I love books that keep me eagerly reading to see what happens next . Loved her moving from present to past . ",4
"I gave three descriptions in my title that say it all but the first two speak the loudest this book is repetitive and boring . The train rolls in the train rolls out in the old folk 's facility Jacob is nothing but cranky and rude over and over again . I truly do n't understand how this book was picked up for publication . I can more easily understand that it was made into a movie even though I have n't seen it and after reading the book I probably wo n't as I can imagine it is truly a spectacle with all of the color and magic of a circus . And I will agree with other reviewers that it is well researched and the author does a good job portraying the postdepression times . But that alone just does n't carry the rest of the storyline which is shallow and trite . Among so many unaddressed issues how is it that Jacob an ivy leagueeducated young man never looks back at what his life might have been after joining the lowlifes mostly hobos plus the entertainers the circus attracts ? Certainly it 's not to care for the animals as you see him doing very little of that in the book . At the end he wants to run away from the old folk 's home and return to the only life he 'd ever known no surprise there but it 's a ridiculous proposition due to his age and I ca n't imagine anyone in the circus inviting him . If you get nothing else from Uncle Al 's character it is that he or any man in his position would be ruthless and cut loose anyone who did n't pull their weight so what would a 90+ year old man do ? Certainly not water the elephants . ",0
"I wound up enjoying the book tremendously more than I expected to when I started.The story starts out slowly but subtly draws you in until you are intrigued as to what 's going to happen next . The world of circuses at least to me was completely unknown so I could n't predict what was coming . I was surprised at what horrible conditions both the people and the animlas endured on train circuses of the 1920s1940s . If you 're looking for a happy magical story about running away to join the circus this is n't it.The character development is limited as it is written in the first person . My favorite character was Rosie the elephant because the narrator clearly loves her and therefore you love her.Apparently Gruen did vast research on the train circuses making her use of jargon lore and the incorporating of actual stories the core of the novel.As far as I can remember this is the first time I read a book that provides insight from the perspective of an old person living in a nursing home or assisted living facility . Jacob 's frustration at his body failing him and of people making decisions for him and treating him like a child along with feelings of being abandoned and useless really got to me and were gently and movingly written.The magic comes in the highly improbable yet tremendously satisfying ending.I definitely recommend the book . ",4
"I did n't want to start this book because I 'm an animal lover & I heard some parts were too hard to read . They are tough but the book is worth reading . ",4
"just loved the story line . Brought back good memories of going to the circus as a child . It was really great to get a peek at the behind the scenes lives of the Big Top . A very entertaining book ",4
"I enjoyed the parts with young Jacob but did n't like the transition to nursing home Jacob . I would have given this book 5 stars if it were n't for those interludes which just made me sad and empty . I believe the story stood just as strongly without the flashforwards . The relationship between Marlena and Jacob was titillating and I was just as consumed with routing for them as I was waiting for August to get what he deserved . I have n't been so affected by a villain on the page in a long timeperhaps it was his abuse of the animals especially Rosie which made him so heinous in my eyes.Gruen 's treatment of her secondary characters ranged from welldeveloped to shadows but each served his or her own purpose because that 's how I imagine life in a circus communitythere are so many people around all the time that you would feel you know them even if you had n't actually held a real conversation with them.The circus rocked but even the quasihappy ending could n't bring me out of the funk of the nursing home . ",3
"I could n't put it down . I love love love this beautiful novel . You will never look at a circus or an elephant the same . Sara Gruen 's illustration of memory is a very special thing . This novel gives life to spectacular people you come to love and hate but moreso miss when you 've turned the last page . ",4
"I TRULY ENJOYED THIS COMPASSIONATE PAGE TURNER . THE BOOK GIVES THE READER A WEALTH OF INTERESTING CIRCUS FACTS AND HISTORY . I AM RECOMMENDING IT TO ALL MY FRIENDS . ",4
"I ca n't say it was bad but it sure was n't good . I have had the book for many years and just got around to reading it . Major disappointment considering the hype and accolades . It had the potential to be much better but it was trite and lagged all the way through for the most part . I 'm mystified by the massive attention . It in my opinion is mediocre at best . 3 stars is the max I can give it . Great literature it 's not . Sophomoric comes to mind . ",2
"A ninetyor is it ninetythree ? yearold man recalls his days as a circus veternarian . Murder Romance Intrigue and all the stuff of Trains Depression and Prohibition give this novel sizzle . Eleven and a half hours on ten CD 's and worth every second of it . Do n't miss this one . ",4
"I admit it I liked this book . It revolves around themes of who is my family when one is adrift at sea biologically speaking . I know there are criticisms of the cruelty to animals issues and I was uncomfortable with them also . However the story is set in the 192030 's and it is about the circus . I believe Ms. Gruen wrote accurately about how animals fared in that time and place.Reviewed by Holly Weiss author of Crestmont ",3
"I purchased this because I read good reviews and it was only $ 4 on Kindle . It is full of sex scenes and profanity . Very sorry I purchased it . Will stay with Christian fiction . ",0
"This engrossing book sucks you into its colorful world and holds you there until the 800pound fat lady sings.Plot summaryVeterinary student Jacob joins the Benzini Bros. circus train in 1931 and falls in love with Marlena an equestrian performer who happens to be married to his boss the volatile animal director August.ProsThis is a mustread pageturner featuring a unique setting for a classic love triangle . It 's gripping and complex with some wonderfully written supporting characters such as Walter Camel Uncle Al and Rosie the elephant . The tension slowly builds between the central characters but is relieved with some laughoutloud moments from circus lore . The story is told in flashbacks from a 93 year old . There are some truly poignant moments at the nursing home . This is a really unique welldone and entertaining book and I liked that I could n't guess the ending.ConsVirtually nonexistent and what there is is nitpicky but here goes It 's written in present tense which takes some getting used to . On p. 147 A black boy offers to shine my shoes . My 98yearold grandmother uses the term colored and I believe that was the common term in the ` 30s and that black was a '60s term . Again stupid nitpicky and does n't detract from this fabulous book.Worth all of the hype this is one of the best books I 've read this year and I 've read a lot of books . Read the book before you see the movie . Enthusiastically recommended . 5 stars . ",4
"I absolutely loved this book ! The voices of the characters were so well written . I could hear the booming and sad voice of older Jacob and the passionate voice of young Jacob . They really came to life for me . A great read ! ",4
"Juvenile and disney plot.faulty and unrealistic details.Uninteresting and underdeveloped characters.Premature professions of love.Basically this book reads like a typical Hollywood movie . This is unfortunate but it is representative of a new class of novelists who are more influenced by movies ' depiction of culture rather than the actual culture itself . Minus all the Rrated stuff this is nothing more than a whimsical book for adolescents . Once again an underwhelming and lazy manifestation of a great concept . ",0
"If you ever dreamed of running away to join the circus this is a must read . A deep look into the mysterious world ",4
"I & # 8217m ambivalent about this novel . It & # 8217s good . It & # 8217s very nice . It & # 8217s a pageturner . It doesn & # 8217t suffer the fate of many many novels & # 8212 even some of my best loved & # 8212 but there was something missing.That & # 8217s a convoluted way of saying I enjoyed it but it didn & # 8217t stick with me.Plot and pacing are excellent in this novel . I often write that most books need to be shorter . Novelists seem to always come up with a great opening . Better ones have great endings . Most fail in the middle . That middle third of most novels is such a bore to me . I think it & # 8217s filler to beef up a word count . I didn & # 8217t find this in Water for Elephants at all . Gruen can structure a story and keep the pace going . That & # 8217s a terribly hard thing to do and she pulled it off wonderfully.With one glorious exception however the characterization fell flat for me . Did I care about the characters ? Kinda . Did I care about the romance ? No . What did touch me was the role of the older Jacob . How this young female writer climbed into the head of a ninety plus year old man I & # 8217ll never know but his thoughts and actions rang true . He was facing death but still facing life and his inner monologue caused an almost claustrophobic feeling in myself . My god I kept thinking . This could very well be me trapped in a body aware that I & # 8217m losing my mind to age and most frightening of all without the ability to do a damned thing about it . I hope to elicit that kind of reaction in a reader one day.The parts of the novel confined to an old man doing nothing much more than sitting in a wheelchair will stick with me for a while . I may go back and read those bits at times . The parts with the trains circus performances midgets elephants romance and violence ? Not so much . ",3
"Excellent read ! Ms. Gruen masters character and plot with beautiful prose . I remained captivated and found myself caring for the diverse cast . Ms. Gruen successfully evokes a sense of the times the desperate nature of survival during the Depression as well as one 's attempt to salvage one 's sense of self as age betrays the body . The storyline is suspenseful true to period and woven through with a touch of romance . The setting is gritty and evokes the reality of Circus life on the road and the behindthescenes work required to attain the magical world the public craves . Well done ! ",4
"Actually come to think of it my time would have been better spent staring at an hourglass . This book was a soap opera in print . The characters were mostly stereotypical ergo predictable . I do n't think giving the ending away in the prologue was such a great idea because I spent the next 330+ pages waiting for something anything ! to happen in that vein . Instead I found myself wading through pages of the author describing events such as tent raising etc.. The romantic scenes were very campy . During the first several chapters when the book 's format became aparent I thought it was very fascinating to have the elder scenes interspersed with the circus scenes . It turns out that they did n't add much to the story or even make me want to keep reading . The writing in the elder scenes was amusing and soon those chapters became my reward for reading the cirucs chapters . The ending was perhaps the most aggravating aspect of this book . Something about Gruen 's description of circus life and all its attendant characters makes me think it highly unlikely that a modernday cirucs manager would embrace a decrepit old man and rescue him from life at the rest home . Maybe it was all those descriptions of redlighting we were givenI 'm not sure . All said I enjoyed Gruen 's writing style but I would have enjoyed it much more telling a story with some substance . ",1
"A SOSO BOOK THAT WAS NOT AS GOOD AS I EXPECTED W ALL THE GLOWING REVIEWS . BUT IT WAS AN INTERESTING READ ON CIRCUS LIFE . ",2
"So great I read it twice and am reviewing both versions at once ! Jacob is in the last weeks of veterinary school at Cornell when he is hit with a massive shock the death of both of his beloved parents and more importantly the loss of everything he owns to the bank . This is the throws of the Depression . He does what every man would do in his situation hops a train to anywhere only to find out it is the circus train of The Benzini Bros . Greatest Show on Earth ! As the show 's veterinarian he forms a close relationship with crazy August the equestrian trainer his wife Marlena a performer and Rosie the elephant . As the days go on life on the circus gets crazier and crazier until one day all hell breaks loose . What will Jacob do next ? This book is narrated by two voices that of the 90 something year old Jacob retelling the events as he remembers them and that of the 20 something year old Jacob experiencing the events . The audiobook did an amazing job of casting two narrators and it made it one of the best books I have listened too . You were easily able to tell at what time you were by who was narrating and it made it feel so real.Gruen does an amazing job of researching the life of circus workers during the Depression . At no time did I feel that the details were out of place . You could feel the desperation of the roustabouts when they were continually not paid resorted to drinking bootleg liquor ran out of food . Reading this book was like stepping back in time.I loved this book ! It is easily very near the top of my favorite books list . According to the authors website Fox 2000 has purchased the rights to this book to make a movie and hear rumor that Reese Witherspoon might be cast as Marlena . I think it would make a fantastic movie . ",4
"I thoroughly enjoyed this book and could n't wait to share it with others . All of my friends who 've read it love it as well . As you can tell from the near 5 star consensus from reviewers this is a wonderful book so I do n't really need to go into a long drawn out review but I will say that I loved the rich interesting characters who felt like old friends by the end of the book and the story was engrossing and lovely a true love story between lovers between friends and between man and beast . And the total immersion into another world and time was just a bonus . You ca n't go wrong with this book ! ",4
"Water for Elephants is a story about an old man 's recollection of his days working for the circus and the bizzare array of characters circus work attacts . The setting transitions between the wild memories of working as a veterinarian for a travelling circus set in the 1930s and the protagonist 's present life in a home for the elderly lonely and unappreciated . Themes of the book include romance good vs evil depression era desperation and life in old age.The main character is a well studied neargraduate from an Ivy league school who loses everything after a catastrophe and feels he must run away and happens upon a circus train . He ends up working in very rough conditions to survive and struggles with a love triangle that puts his life in peril.My personal affection for the book lies in the brutal conditions desperate people will endure particularly for those who feel they have no place to go as some of these characters do . I 'm also very fond of the contrast of how the elderly protagonist struggles with trivial tasks like wanting to eat a crisp apple while his younger self survived through such turbulent times . Finally the layout of the story in which some details are revealed out of order through the timetransitions enables the reader to piece certain details together before the main narrative gets to it feels like a device out of the movie Pulp Fiction in a good way.This novel is written based off of actual and anecdotal incidents of circus life as per the interview with the author contained in the back of the book . The historical basis however is unnecessary to appreciate the vivid story but definitely made me appreciate the author 's research to include tidbits of American history that might otherwise be lost . I found this novel to be the most compelling book I have ever read and literally lost hours of sleep over it . ",4
"I caught a review of this book on NPR.I usually am disappointed in books by female authors but the only thing that bothered me about this book was that it ended . I will keep a more open mind henceforth . I have n't seen the other reviews but ca n't see how anyone could give this title less than a four . I enjoyed it from start to finish.Am now going to see which of Ms. Gruen 's books I want to read next.Well done ! ",4
"Characters were constantly doing things that just did n't make any sense . His parents are both killed in a tragic accident a week before his finals and his professors do NOTHING to give him the benefit of the doubt on his exams ? Were incompletes a complete unknown in this time period ? There 's a lot more but I 'm trying to block it out . The main character himself seems to have virtually no inner life except a vague desire to get laid . At one point he says he 's interested in animals but there sure no evidence of this.The entire first half of the book is exposition about circus life with a long segment of gratuitous titillation thrown in . I 've got nothing against gritty and true to life . However I have no tolerance for scenes that are so obviously there only to sell the book as soft porn to an audience that would n't know literature if it hit them in the face.Characters are less 3D than cardboard cut outs . My dad 's vague recollections of a circus coming to town when he was a kid in this time period were way more riveting . At least they involved actual people with real human motivations not characters who move from point A to B only because the author 's outline said the plot had to move there.And present tense ? Throughout the entire book ? That 's a device that should have been discarded in high school . It does nothing but make me snicker at the author 's obvious lack of writing talent.I had heard a rumor that this book was written as a NaNoWriMo project and I can certainly believe it . It seems to have been dashed off from a previously constructed outline without any regard for building up characters and then modifying the plot if it made more sense for their motivations . The present tense writing style is another give away that this was written in a rush and barely revised . And the plonking in of vocabulary and facts willynilly stopping what little story there is in midstream kind of screams first draft all the way through . ",0
"I got this on the Kindle when it went on sale . I 'm so glad I did . What a wonderfully researched book . The details are amazing and the story is both heartbreaking and heartwarming at the same time . I had never heard of this book until the movie came out which looks a bit chickflick'ish to me but the book definitely is not . I have not seen the movie yet waiting for the DVD but I am anxious to see if its true to the book.I think people of all genres will like this book . I normally read paranomal fiction but I really loved this book . My mom usually reads nonfiction girly books and she loved it . I even have my husband reading it now . So by all means get this book ! ",4
"Really enjoyed this novel . It kept you intriqued with what would happen next . Was not just about Tent Circus life it was mystery love story and human rights all in one . Highly recommend . ",4
"I love historical novels and this is one of my favorites . The circus in the Great Depression era is a great setting for the underlying love story . The internal struggles the main characters go through are timeless and highly resonate with our modern times perhaps in part because both eras had economic hardship . The book is narrated by a 93 or 96 as he ca n't remember his real age man . His character is very well put together very real . The book has an optimistic message of triumph over adversity and the value of friendship and true love . ",3
"I 'm not going to go into a synopsis of 'Water for Elephants ' as it 's been given so many times already . I just want to say how much I enjoyed this book . I finished it in 3 nights and now actually regret having finished it so quickly . This is one of the few books that I feel I have to reread . I can not recommend this enough . You wo n't regret it . I will certainly be reading everything written by Sara Gruen . ",4
"I loved this book . A tender love story recounted by a nonagenarian in present time.USA 1930s . Jacob Jankowski had it all planned out about to become a veterinarian looking forward to join his father 's practice fate disrupts everything . Almost overnight he is employed in a circus the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth . Animals love him and he loves animals but not only . He falls in love for the very first time in his life . But love just like wild animals can be dangerous if one is not too careful and it slowly dawns on him that all the glittery world of a circus is not always what it seemsThe book is written in alternating chapters between present day and the past . The present day is represented touchingly moving in a few parts although the main character Jacob now mostly sitting on a wheelchair with a few aches and pains still has a sense of humour and a passion for life that is uplifting . He is now ninety . Or ninetythree.The chapters about his past are absorbing and mesmerizing not only because of him falling in love for the first time with lovely Marlene they also offer an engaging insight of circus life the workers the animals and what is behind all those lights and delights . Very interesting.So drum roll please . Let the show begin Ladies and Gentlemen . Sit back and be prepared for a few surprises enjoy the show ! ",4
"I have to say that this book was very much like a soapopera . Everything was pretty predictable and that ruined it . I have no clue why she choose this title especially since Rosie does n't play that much of a dominate role as was expected . What held this book together was the old Jacob and just the curiousity to make sure what you predicted was correct . Overall I say if your looking for a fast read enjoy . ",1
"This is a great book well written interesting and I really liked it . The story was pretty sad though so do n't read it when you 're down ! ",4
"Jacob Jankowski recounts the wonderful time he spent with the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth . During the Great Depression his parents are killed and Jacob now penniless has to leave vet school . He learns the ins and outs of circus life falls in love with a beautiful horse rider and becomes attached to Rosie the elephant who responds to Polish commands . ",4
"I really enjoyed this book . It was like nothing I had ever read before . Not my favorite but still captivating . Definitely worth it ! ",3
"While this book required significant research about the circus I relished the insightful development of the old man in a nursing home . It caused me to reflect on aspects of elder care that we do n't know or rarely consider . I read a novel occasionally between my favorite genre of the moment in nonfiction . This fit the bill . I could n't wait to return to it when my reading was interrupted . A lovely story and welcomed page turner . ",4
"Water For Elephants is an excellent novel depicting railroad circus life during the early part of the 20th century . The author Sara Gauen researched boxcar circuses before writing Water the societal environment of the depression attitudes toward circus workers by owners treatment of the animals in the menageries and how they were obtained during the depression era then rapped everything into the lives of her main characters add to this the breaking of the sexual mores frowned on by society mix and you have a recipe that makes for good reading . The best thing about Water is the telling of the story by Jacob Jankowski who is a 90 or 93 year old Vet depending on how you look at it now confined in a residential nursing home and looking back into his past . Heads up folks Water for Elephants is coming out as a movie soon and I am looking forward to seeing it . ",4
"I totally enjoyed this book . The characters were well developed the history was good and I love that it was told from this old man 's point of view . The ending was priceless . The movie was disappointing compared to the novel . ",4
"I found Water for Elephants to be entertaining and educational . I really cared for the characters and while I wanted to get to the end to confirm something I thought it was confirmed I DID N'T want to get to the end because that meant I would n't be reading about the characters anymore BUT I am carrying them with me and is n't that what a good book does ? I highly recommend this book . ",4
"I have always read a lot and since I got the Kindle I have been reading all the time . I would have given this book 10 stars if there were a choice for that . It is easily the BEST book I read in 2010 ! ! ",4
"I read this book a while back and I must agree with every 12 stars reviewer out there it is Overrated plain and simple . I know a lot of people are interested in reading this book because of the recent Major Motion Picture starring Rob Pat and Reese Witherspoon.Oh Well the premise of the story is quite interesting an almost college graduate who runs away after his parents tragic death nope this is not a spoiler it 's in the back cover only to join a traveling circus where he goes from a stable boy to the circus vet in a course of well less than a year and falls in love with a married showgirl named Marlena who is suffering under her abusive husband August who is described as being schizophrenia but every psychologist will tell you he 's just an aggressive controlling jerk with anger management problems.So this book has all the elements possible to make it a good read Adventure Romance Drama and forbidden love Blah Blah Blah ! Adventure Hardly ! Action Well apart from the few scenes of hopping in and out of trains there 's hardly any to count Romance & Forbidden love ? the romance element although seems to sum up a big part of the story even bigger than the circus is so contrived lacking and unrealistic . The characters hardly hold a conversation to make us believe they belong together I did n't care if Marlena and Jacob separated for life ! Actually I found myself hoping they would just to spice up the book from its predictable ultimate boring ending and I 'm a person who loves happy endings Circus Life ? Well Yeah its there all right but the writing does n't allow it to come to life . I never felt transported to the 193os I never felt that I was in a circus . The descriptions were unfortunately very flat.The characters are the biggest disappointment in the book . They are twodimensional at best as well as stereotypical . The Good guys are innocent nice and bearing all the sufferings of the world on their shoulders and the bad guys are greedy jerks and a $ $ holes who only care about profit and the $ $ $ money ! Some people were complaining about the Over the top sex scenes Ahh O.K ! I 'm used to reading romance books heavy on sex scenes and this one does n't even come close . I do n't mind sex in books as long as there is a reason to it and as long as it is beautifully written . In here the characters are just flat out boring that they make sex and murder boring.Obviously none of them is sympathetic even Jacob who just lost his parents we never get insight into his soul . We never knew for sure why or how was he driven by depression and shock after his parents death to leave all his life behind him and join a circus we never even know how he recovered from the lost of his parents because he never show any signs of being sad or depressed . Marlena on the other hand well she is in an abusive relationship so its O.K that she cheats on her husband with Jacob . It would 've been rather interesting if her husband was actually a good man but she fell out of love with him and ran away with Jacob leaving the circus . Now that would 've been a better conclusion ! This bookauthor does the fatal mistake of telling instead of showing . We are told that this and that happens but we are never shown and therefore never transported . I give it 2 stars for entertainment value and because it was a fairly easyfast paced book to read . However other than that maybe I was expecting too much but this book is overhyped and frankly way overrated . ",1
"I ca n't believe it took me so long to read this book . Its a great quick read . I will definitely look for more books by this author . Love the style ! ",4
"I first heard about this novel in an email from my Mom to my brothers and me . I asked a coworker about it . She 'd just finished about it and also raved about it.I just finished it . What a story . Very touching . Very real . The end is just phenomenal and not what I expected.Read it ! ",4
"This is an incredible story how many of us say we want to run away and start over but not many of us actually do . This wonderful story of the circus life and difficulties faced where everyone has their place . Truly an unforgetable story of courage and hope . ",4
"Pleasantly surprised to enjoy this book as much as I did . I saw the movie first and the book is so much better . ",4
"What a great adventureone feels like they are rightbeside the believable characters under the big tent . Thisbook has some of the most memorable characters and oneof the wittiest and most satisfying storylines I have evercome across . Treat yourself to a great oneread this book ! ",4
"I really liked how the characters went back and forth from elderly to his youth . I found myself often feeling like I was there watching it all play out . ",2
"SPOILER ALERTPut this novel on the FUN READ shelf . Definitely nothing mindblowing in terms of plot or prose but a very entertaining look at depression era circus life.The author alternates for the most part chapters between Jacob 's life during the depression and his life as a 90 year old in a nursing home . One gets the sense that the author seeks to evoke some sympathy for the 90 year Jacob 's plight . In this endeavor she fails as she never fully fleshes out his relationship with his children . Thus the reader is left feeling slightly apathetic as to his plight as a lonely and ornery old man wasting away in a assisted living facility.Finally the ending is a bit contrived and convenient . The frail old Jacob making a break for it out of the retirement home and going to the circus event that is in town . There of course he meets and befriends one of the circus directors who spirits him away on their cross country tour . Happily ever blah blah blah.All of this is not to discourage someone from reading this novel . The author can write with rhythm and keeps the pacing light and quick . Viewing the novel as a love story the author is adept at capturing the dual emotional nature of love with phrases like exhausted and recharged desperate and fulfilled . With a good writer this book would make a great movie . ",2
"Water for Elephants was a fantastic book . Easy to read and interesting . Most impressively a topic that I never gave much thought to DepressionEra travelling train circuses was something I enjoyed reading about . To be honest I never knew there was such a topic . Now I 'm wondering if there are any Industrial Revolution cat juggling books out there that I should be reading . Anyway Gruen seemed to do a decent amount or research for the book so I learned a little something about the topic . The best part of the book was the fantastic ending . More books should end like that . ",3
"This is one of those books that I read because I loved the movie first . So I was quite surprised when I read how the book begins with the murder of one of the main characters . When I further realized that August does not own the Benzini Brothers I began to see the movie as its own story separate from the book.Jacob is by far the most interesting character of the book especially since he tells the story as an old man in a nursing home and has the wisdom and experience to go with his age . His emotions are infectious and I longed to sit down with him and listen to all of his stories in person way before I finished the book.August is the kind of villain that is confusing in his evil deeds he has schizophrenia which makes it somewhat unfair to dislike him so much . His irrational behavior has been exploited for the almighty dollar by Uncle Al but the real villain tends to fade into the background.Marlena is beautiful to the point of angelic very little of what she does can be considered wrong in any way as she is a victim struggling for freedom for most of the book . She approaches August 's mood swings with the same caution due a wild animal and remains faithful to him despite her personal feelings and does not leave until he first betrays her . Considering how women today will leave their husbands for any reason I admire her strong morals.The background is set during the Great Depression which made for many intense situations as the circus struggled to profit as well as the survival of the cast of characters . Though I studied this period in American history the direct experience gave me a clearer idea of the desperation of people alive during this time how easily morals could be put on hold for the sake of another mouthful of food or another coin in the pocket . So many men of the circus would work without pay for the promise of another meal and unending hope that life could still improve.Rosie the elephant is also one of the most fascinating characters in the book . She proved to be only one example of how animals were exploited to the point of cruelty for profit . I could not help wondering where the animal activists were.Needless to say this book sparked many conversations and inspired many moments of personal contemplation for me . I loved this book and I highly recommend it . ",4
"I read Water For Elephants for the second time on Kindle and it was just as exciting as the first time I read it . The book is like being right there at a Barnum and Bailey circus with popcorn and peanuts . The character Marlena was so real accepting her role as the abused woman and then finally escaping the tyrant she had married . All of the characters seemed to come to life there on the page . I thoroughly enjoyed all the scenes . And in the end when the animals were stampeding it was interesting to learn that the circus band struck up a particular march to alert the circus performers to take cover or escape . An excellent read . ",4
"This book is AMAZING ! I will not rewrite a review that over 1000 people have written . except to say that yes this novel is amazing . ",4
"It 's okay but have the Kindle edition and there are LOTS of spelling mistakes through out the book . Makes it hard to read ",2
"Jacob Jankowski the main character is a 90 or 93 year old man in a nursing home and he tells the story of how he wound up joining a circus in his early 20 's . His parents are both killed in a car accident and finds out that his parents have mortaged everything to pay for his tuition at Cornell Vet school . Figuring that he is unable to continue his education and he jumps on a train in the middle of the night running away from everything he had known . The train that he winds up on is a circus train.He befriends several individuals and winds up working for the outfit . One particular person is a married woman named Marlena . Jacob 's boss is Marlena 's husband August . August is a bit off mentally to say the least.One of the most remarkable and memorable characters in the book is an elephant that the circus aquired named Rosie . When she is first aquired August believes she is dumbest animal on earth because she would not do anything that they tried to get her to do . Because of this August beats Rosie on a regulart basis until Jacob by accident discovers that she only understands commands given to her in Polish . After that discovery Rosie is the star of the show alongside of Marlena.Things do n't stay rosy for long . August has more fits ex circus employee 's who were thrown off the train catch up and performers get sick and tired of what has been happening . It all comes together in a pretty horrific yet kind of an amusing scene in the end.Not only did I enjoy the story of Jacob 's circus days but I also enjoyed Jacob 's narration about getting old . It really makes you think about how we treat the elderly and how we should be treating them . ",4
"Sara Gruen spins a fascinating tale of murder love obsession and life in Water for Elephants . The characters were interesting and well developed . Her portrayal of the elderly was spoton without being stereotypical . That 's a very difficult thing to do not many authors are capable of unraveling the story of an elderly character.Her portrayal of circus life is intriguing and the characters never failed to invoke strong feelings of endearment horror amusement or pity . I would n't call this a must read but it is definitely an interesting story that was well written and well researched . ",3
"I had heard this was a good book . I was misinformed . This was the most crude foul book I have ever attempted to read . Though the main story was mildly interesting the all too frequent use of profanity and descriptions of intimate relations put me off entirely . I started trying to use white out to cover the offensive items . I quickly realized that would include a great deal of the book . I decided I did n't want to fill my mind with such things and stopped reading . This book went directly into the recycle bin rather than being donated to a thrift store . I did n't want another unwitting person to go through the same experience I did . ",0
"Still reading but the beginning is fantastic . Animal stampede 's a circus mystery and suspense . What 's not to like ? ",4
"This book was slow to start but once I got into it I could not put it down . It twisted and turned all over the place . It was such a relief despite some of the more depressing points that it had a great happy ending . The author did a great job giving Rosie the elephant human characteristics . I liked that it was told from the point of view of an older man looking back . Even his ending to the story was an amazing one . I would definantly recommend this book to a friend . ",4
"If you 're an middleaged old fart like me this book might be too much for you . It was nearly overwhelming for me and it invaded my dreams over the few nights in which I read it . Nonetheless it 's an excellent read . A rending read . A compelling read . Moreover you might think the author knows you and is telling a version of your life 's story if you like me are a middleaged old fart . ",4
"When a book is a best seller and has gotten the reviews this book had I expected something better . In the end I felt like the book was average . I am 26 and am generally not interested in reading books about depression era circuses and love triangles but I thought since this book got great reviews I would give it a shot . After all the best book I read last year was the Devil in the White City and I figured if someone could make the 1893 world 's fair interesting perhaps 1930s circuses would be interesting as well . Even with an open mind I could n't get into the book . 40 or so pages about a 90 year old man the remaining 300 he recalls his 3.5 months of his life in a circus when he was 22. first 100 pages were decent but then nothing real interesting after that . Bottom line if you do n't like circuses or reading books about love triangles do n't make the same misstake that I did and buy this book because it is a best seller with great reviews . If thats what you enjoy then yeah you 'll probably like it . ",2
"I had no clue what to expect when picking this book up but I have to say it was one of the better reads I 've had in a long time . ",4
"It 's also the only circus novel I 've ever read . This is an entertaining drama novel with a love triangle . The characters are nicely fleshed out and there is a nice to and fro between Jacob 's current life as a ninety year old and his adventures in the circus . Gruen does a charming job of describing Jacob as an old man and the ending is very good . Whilst the book is good I think it has been lucky that it has benefitted from great marketing and a big budget film as there are other books which are more powerful & more deserving than this book that have not received any recognition.Enjoyably recommended . ",3
"This book was not what I was expecting at all . Although I do n't know what I was expecting . I was taken on a journey that I thoroughly enjoyed and have shared the book with others . ",3
"This book was such a great love story with a very different backdrop . I loved learning about the circus life . ",4
"When Jacob Jankowski 's life is turned upside down he inadvertently leaps onto a circus train and begins a seven year adventure as veterinarian to the circus animals . This is the predictable story of a boy who falls in love with the unattainable woman compassion cruelty and the consequences meted out by an elephant.I enjoyed this book but did find it rather predictable and the ending was both bizarre and a major let down ",2
"Water For Elephants written by Sara Gruen is a book told as a memoir by a fictional ninetysomething old man about his time with the circus as a young man . This experience matured him and forever changed the direction of his life.This book is charming . I could relate to the characters and understand their motivations easily . I enjoyed reading it and have reread it several times . I highly recommend it to everyone . Should be at parents discretion as there are some adult themes . Probably best for those over thirteen . ",4
"Very good book could hardly put it down . Have the movie will now watch it . Give it a 5 star ",4
"The details and descriptions were wonderful but the story could 've been a little tighter . Good characters and an absorbing read overall . ",3
"When this book is telling the story of the circus it is fascinating describing a world that most readers know nothing about . But possibly in an attempt to make it more commercial the author has chosen to focus on the love story which is predictable . In those scenes fascination turns to boredom.Use all that research described in detail at the end of the book Ms Gruen to tell us more stories of the roustabouts performers animals and freaks of the circus and forget the plot and the soap ! ",2
"I found this book interesting because of the research Ms. Gruen obviously did on train circuses and depressionera life . I also thought her passages detailing the life of Jake as an old man were the best written things in the book . Since Ms. Gruen is a woman who appears from her author 's photo to be barely middleaged I have to assume that some research went into finding out about the lives of elderly men as well because she writes these passages with a clear and utterly believable voice that truly resonates.Unfortunately nothing else in the book resonates nearly as much and there 's a lot lacking here . The young version of Jake never takes off as a character nor does his entirely manufactured love story with a circus bareback rider . We know from the moment he sees Marlena that she 'll obviously be his love interest but their relationship never actually develops before they 're suddenly declaring love for one another and hitting the sack.Ms . Gruen also fails in her execution of believable villains . Her two main villains are August a brutal horse trainer who abuses or neglects all of the animals and Uncle Al the cruel circus boss but their villainy never really jumps off the page . For some reason she chose to make her main antagonist August Jewish . I still do n't understand the reasoning behind that nor do I understand her choice to call him a paranoid schizophrenic as well . Oh and for good measure he 's also a wife beater . He 's simply too many things rolled into one . Perhaps if she 'd concentrated on one aspect of his brutality she could have made him more believable . And unfortunately since his religion really has nothing else to do with him as a character it 's hard not to simply label Ms. Gruen as antisemitic . Perhaps if she 'd actually used the show do n't tell philosophy and let us SEE what Uncle Al was doing instead of just hearing about everything second hand from other characters he would n't have seemed so twodimensional . As it is I never bought these guys as the towering pillars of pure evil they were obviously supposed to be.I also never bought Jake at least not as a young man . One minute he 's making a vow to himself that he 'll stay with the animals so they wo n't be hurt because that 's what his dead father would want him to do . Yet he stands by not once but TWICE and allows August to savagely beat an elephant with a hook . It 's hard to respect a character like that . Jake rarely takes any real action he mostly just stands by while things happen TO him or happen around him.I also felt the book could have benefited from a diagram . In books that take place on ships there 's usually a sketch in the front of the book with all the parts labeled for readers to refer back to so they can understand the action . I had a lot of trouble visualizing the train where a good 40 % of the crucial action takes place in this book and that was a major barrier to getting into the story . Had there been a sketch of it up front with all the sections labeled those sections of the story would have been much easier to understand.Overall I am giving this book 4 stars because of the research the informative author 's note at the end and the sections with Jake as an old man . I also really got a kick out of the ending . But on the whole I would recommend this as a library book or a used book store book definitely NOT one you pay full price for . ",3
"This is a wonderful book made better by excellent readers.Jacob Jankowski joins the circus as a young man after the death of his parents . This was during the depression when many were willing to work for little more than regular meals . Sara Gruen tells the story of a traveling circus with a surety that makes it hard to believe she has never experienced the cruelty hard times and camaraderie of circus life . Even more amazing the story is told from the perspective of Jacob as a 93 year old man forgotten in a nursing home.There are two readers one for the young Jacob and one for the old and both are a true pleasure to listen to . ",4
"Yes it has its dark moments . And yes it can be disturbing . And that means the author did the job right.The book follows the life that was not an easy one and is not the perfect sunset of old age and conveys it all in the context of a world that most people do not know the in and outs about the circus but at the same time which is something we all have dreamed about . If not dreamed about at least were enamored with when we were young.As others said I could not put this book down and lost a bit of sleep turning a few extra pages further in the evening . But it was worth it . ",4
"I was visiting a local independent bookstore and asked the person in charge of romance novels for suggestions . She named several books for me including Water for Elephants which she insisted was great . I was hesitant because it was not shelved in the romance section but I tried it . I figured romance readers must like this nonromance book for her to suggest it . Fiction lovers might rate this 4 or 5 stars but since it is not my preferred genre I gave it 3 stars which simply means I liked it . It was an interesting piece of fiction . There were a variety of interesting and different types of characters including bad guys good guys and friendships . I enjoyed it and I learned what circus life was like in 1931 including interactions with the animals . I assume the author was reasonably historically accurate regarding circus life at that time.The story is told from Jacob 's perspective when he was in his early 20s and in his early 90s . Shortly before he was to graduate from Cornell veterinary school his parents died and the bank took all their property . Jacob was too upset to sit for his final exams . He left school and got a job with the Benzini Brothers circus acting as vet for the animals . He spent 3 months with that circus . The elephant Rosie had a wonderful role . Jacob developed a relationship with Marlena who was married to August the animal trainer . August was physically abusive to animals Marlena and others.Sexual language mild . Number of sex scenes two . Setting 1931 and around 2001 circus traveling within the U.S . Copyright 2006 . Genre circus human relationships fiction . ",2
"Vividly written . This novel will stick with you.. the author manages to capture humanity from all walks of life even going so far as to describe the animals in a humanly way even though in reality they may be the most human of all . ",4
"i found this book very hard to read sometime . I liked the love story . the cruel story of the animals being mistreated got to me and I had to skip some parts.for animal lovers do n't read this . ",1
"This lovely novel is especially meaningful if you are caring for someone elderly I hope it helps me look a little differently at someone painfully leaning on a walker or sitting quietly in a wheelchair.I knew nothing about the world of the circus you do n't have to this book will catch you up in its spell . ",3
"I loved reading this as I had been taken to a circus a lot as a little girl in NE Illinois and as an adult I worked in 8 different nursing homes . It was wonderful seeing it from the patient 's eyes and reading his story . I remember many a story told by patients . One was an old silent movie star ! I wonder if Sara Gruen had any nursing home experiance as she nailed it including the caring and non caring type of people that work there and why some of the patients may be grumpy . The view of the circus behind the scenes was a fantastic story ! ",4
"In dismal times . the era 1930the story unfolds with interestand meaning and deep reflection of the main character who is now in a nursing home telling this story.A unique plot The circus sure leads to imagination and wonder of the people and circumstances of that era and their transient life styles . You can taste the vulnerablity of the main character . You can feel his love and applaud his decency.the author does a great job of depicting his image and feeding him throughout the book . I began to see the dirt under his nails and visioned his unkept state yet I liked him . the protagonst was well depictedthe author had me on the edge of my seat . And Rosie was described so well I felt her breath on my face and the breeze of her ears flapping.After 350 pages with no frills the entire book takes place on a circus train and the empty lots where the circus acts takes placeit behooved me that the book remained a real page turner . It was well written and held my interest . I recommend it to all audiences . ",4
"captured my interest from chapter one . interesting look at the circuses of the past as well as a love story . recommended reading ",3
"One of those books that I did n't want to end . The first chapters pull you in quickly . The history of the circus is absolutely fabulous . And Sara Gruen 's handling of the main character is awesome . You see life through his eyes as a young man and as an elderly person . Fascinating . Do n't miss it . ",4
"wanted to read the book too loaded it into my kindle too for those nights when I ca n't sleep and there are a lot of those ",4
"Loved the story and the time period . Liked the book so much I wanted to see the movie . Hard to put down ! ",4
"Well written well researched and interesting look into a subject I knew little about . Although the book was about circus trains during the depression years the real message was that getting old is hell . What a heart wrenching portrayal of this man recalling his few years when he ran away and joined the circus . But mostly how horrible it is to be old forgetting important things and having family forget you . Rosie the Elephant is a wonderful character . ",3
"Boy runs away to the circus then does it again in his old age . Lots of adventure for him . Warm fuzzies . ",4
"Saw the movie first and enjoyed the book more than the movie . Very entertaining and well written . I have recommended it to others . ",4
"Love Love Love this book ! ! ! I think the story is wonderful . If you are an animal lover you will definitely enjoy this book . It is also a love story with the main character falling in love not only with a woman but I think with the animals . It is a story of friendships and a story of a man at the end of his days looking back and maybe finding that his days are not over . And I think I love Rosie ! ",4
"Water for Elephants A NovelI absolutely loved the novel . Our book club read it . It is very readable and interesting . I was absorbed right away . It is also informative about the circus life at that time period . ",4
"This is a beautifully constructed book . The circus atmosphere is rich and detailed and it 's redolent of its time period . The images are strong and the pace while not fast is stately perhaps the way an elephant moves ? ? I deducted a star for two reasons . First it seemed that some leaps in the story came too quickly . Jacob should have spent a bit more time with Rosie before he made the statement I was close to falling in love with her that happened a bit too fast to be believable . Also the ENDING was awful contrived and saccharine . That was a huge disappointment after the rest of the book.Overall though a literary and very good read two things that do n't always go together . ",3
"It was good . About elephants for the most part . They have tusks sometimes but this on did n't . So happy hat . ",3
"I think that most people seem to either love this novel or hate it but I have a hard time stirring myself to care much either way . It is by no means a standout book but neither is it so horrible that I could n't force myself through it.The best writing in the book I think are the sequences with Jacob as an old man . They ring true and have a poignancy regarding the lives and treatment of the elderly that stirs some guilty discomfort . Leaving aside the overthetop sappy happy Hollywood ending these sequences are satisfying and believable.The larger narrative that of Jacob in his twenties also has an air of authenticity at least in terms of feeling to an outsider like a dingy dangerous depressionera circus . It is successful at creating a strong sense of the world . But I never found myself getting wrapped up in the stories of any of the individual characters . In other words I just did n't get pulled in.Some people probably take offense at the blatant sexuality of a handful of scenes and at the mistreatment of animals in several more . I am not personally bothered by these as they are pertinent to the story but neither do they stir me to care much about the outcome of the story . In the end it was an easy read with a vivid world but lacking for me much characterdriven interest . So I 'm on the fence about whether I like it or not . But who says I have to pick a side ? ",2
"Another book for this summer in the hammock . I am looking forward to it . Saw the movie now I will see how accurate they were and how close they followed the book ",4
"I first heard about Water for Elephants as a project that began during NaNoWrimo a few years back when I was trying NaNoWrimo for the first time . It was inspiring to hear.Yet it took me years to get around to reading this book despite many recommendations.I LOVED it ! The author did a lovely job of handling so many characters big and small . She kept solid control over their little quirks tics etc.I particularly enjoyed seeing everything firstperson present through Jacob 's eyes but I do think he was more of a woman 's man than a man 's man . Not that I need him to be a boar or a brute but he was a touch more on the emotional swing side than I generally like in male characters in stories of this ilk.Did n't really matter though because the whole package of this tale enchanted me.Wholeheartedly recommend but be prepared to be disappointed with the movie if you read the book first . ",3
"This was such a well done novel . If you are looking for something different something entertaining and unique.then you have found it ! This story follows the life of a young man that joins the circus . It has themes of coming of age adventure abuse courage love and nostalgia . This will truly stand out as one of my favorite books . The author did a wonderful job . This novel is MUCH recommended . ",4
"After I finally got a chance to read this book I could n't put it down . Outrageous fun and spellbinding this book will leave you wanting more . Shame on Sara for not writing another 200 pages ! This glimpse into the 1930 's was amazing . Very well researched ! ",4
"Water for ElephantsA Novel Written By Sara GruenBook Review by Jay GilbertsonWho in their right mind does n't like the circus ? If you answered yes then this book is for you . If you answered no then this book is for you too . There is something for everyone in this tremendously wellresearched novel of schizophrenic madmen a possible murderer in pink sequins and a towering heroine who happens to be addicted to lemonade . What could be more fun ? A depressionera circus can be the best place to be if you 're Jacob Jankowski and you just buried your parents found out they mortgaged everything they owned to send you off to veterinary college and ultimately you had nothing left to lose.Some of the central themes of this pageturner are to follow your instincts stay true to what you believe in and try to survive no matter what . It 's the what part that kept me flying through the book . The story shifts back and forth from Jacob at ninety or ninetythreehe 's not sure to his incredible life on the train with the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show On Earththe circus ! By incredible I mean that there is a constant fearfactor woven underneath every nuance every situation is rubbed raw in not ever being entirely sure of just what the future holds or even if Jacob has one . That dread is dolled out in bucketsfull by the head honcho of Benzini BrothersUncle Alwho can have you redlighted tossed off the train for any number of indiscretions or simply to lesson the load . The incredible part is that in the end Jacob not only manages to become the circus veterinarian he also gets the girl a bereaved dog one elephant Rosie and eleven horses . Who could ask for more you ask ? Jacob Jankowski that 's who.Then there are the animals . A team of Liberty horses lions and zebras and llamas giraffes chimps panthers and Rosiethe elephantthe Polish elephant no less . The elephant that like all elephants drinks far more water than anyone could ever imagine carrying which is one of many parables in this fastpaced tale.Did I mention the train ? Benzini Brothers traveled exclusively by steamtrain . The train becomes a powerful force that literally grabs up entire failing circuses in its path and absorbs them like the little fish being eaten by the bigger one.Think shark.Uncle Al is a take no prisoners kind of fellow unless he can get you for a song . Then he owns your soul.The secondary story line that of old Jacob looking back on his days with the circus added a depth to this novel rarely seen in most modern literature . He may not know his exact age but there is a spark of life in him not quite ready to waste away in the nursing home that has become his prison . Then a circus comes to town and begins to set up shop right next door to the nursing home . It 's an opportunity that Jacob simply ca n't resist.You wo n't believe what happens next ",4
"Yes I know the ending seemed a little farfetched but I LOVED itand the rest of the book too . Being ignorant about the behind the scenes drama and actions of a circus Sara Gruen educated me with her wellresearched Water for Elephants . The novel was informative and well graphic at times and I 'll never again enter the big top without feeling some compassion for the roustabouts the performers and the animalsespecially the elephants . Ah Rosie . Silver Star too.In addition to educating her readers about the traveling circus life of a bygone era Gruen also tells a vivid and believable tale about a vet student who because of a cruel twist of fate runs away to join the circus . Although the primary story revolves around Jacob and Marlena the author does a fabulous job of character development as she describes Camel August Uncle Al and other assorted circus folks in a story of love cruelty sadness grief and triumph.About that ending I still think it 's awesome and quite believable especially for someone like Jacob who lived his life to the fullest . Maybe there 's a lesson in that for all of us . ",4
"I was really eager to read this book after seeing all the great reviews for it . However I started reading it and could not get into it . The whole first half dragged for me with not too much going on in the story . The writing was difficult to read at times and I agree with some of the reviewers here it often read as a screenplay which made it that much harder to get into . But about halfway through the book the plot starts moving and I actually end up finishing the book and I 'm glad I did . I 'm still not sure why the book itself is getting rave reviews but I am looking forward to seeing how the movie version of the book will turn out . ",2
"I liked it because the characters were well developed . The story was well told & really gave a wonderful view of circus life . ",4
"absolutely fell in love with this story you will find yourself lost in not only the story but the era and the setting . ",4
"This is a good book that brings to light the underbelly of the circus that is not quite as glamerous as one might imagine . I book that leave you wondering what attracts performers to that type of life . ",3
"When his parents are killed in a car accident 23yearold Jacob Jankowski in a state of shock skips out on his veterinary school finals and hops a passing train . The train happens to be that of the Flying Squadron of the Benzi Brothers Greatest Show On Earth a middleoftheroad depression era circus . Jacob earns a job as the circus ' vet caring for a small menagerie of animals.The story is told by a 90 or 93yearold he ca n't remember which Jacob living in a nursing home many years later . And although this aspect adds depth to Jacob 's character it dragged a little for me . However the main story that of Jacob 's adventure with the circus is full of energy . Parts of his romantic involvement with one of the circus performers felt a little predictable but most of the story was engrossing . Gruen 's meticulous research shows throughout the book . The story is never bogged down in details but her vibrant writing brings the circus to life so well that at times I felt like I was watching a really good movie . ",3
"After reading the reviews of this book I knew I would not be disappointed . This is the first book I have read from this author and I found myself interested in the book from the first sentence.The main character Jacob Jankowski starts the story as a 90 or is that 93 ? year old man in a nursing home living out his life . He is unhappy and realizes that his kids and the world have forgotten him . He then thinks back to his early adult life when he was in school to become a veterinarian . He takes us back to those years of the Great Depression and the adventures he had while working for a small traveling circus.The book never lets you down and the characters that Jacob Jankowski meets will keep you interested . It is a book that in my opinion lays open the human experience . At times the book takes a romantic and even very sensual tone . At other times the cruelty of the Great Depression and the desperation of people who worked hoping for some type of income or food will remind you of the harsh life of those times.The book spends some time going back and forth from present day to the days when Jacob Jankowski was part of the circus . The ending surprised me and when I finished the book I was glad that I had the pleasure of reading such a great piece of fiction . ",4
"This novel is about love murder and friendship and it 's all centered around life in the traveling circus of the 1930s . Not only does the author give history of a circus in the 30s but she gives a very entertaining novel with very lovable characters . She starts the novel out with the main character as an old man and then he tells the story of his days with the circus . The old man is incredibly lovable . The book only gets better with every page . ",4
"Maybe it was me but it was just ok for me . There was not a lot of action . it was a sweet love story that took place in the setting of a circus.i like the ending ",2
"This was a wonderful story . It took you back to a world that was going through hard times but still managed to have some magic and hope . I truely enjoyed the story and think it is a great adventure to take . ",3
"If you loved The Help and The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society then you will love this book . I regularly buy used copies of this book when I see them and give them to people just so they will read it . The characters are amazing the story is engaging and it is a truly wonderful read . I have n't seen the movie because I heard that it just did n't live up to the book . ",4
"This book was very good I could not put it down I would recommend it to a friend and my family ",4
"An interesting premise Water for Elephants a melodrama that takes place in a traveling circus during the first half of the last century . Throw in forbidden love an abusive husband murder and a few other plot twists and you 're assured a bestseller followed by a Hollywood movie with a topnotch cast.I went to the circus as a boy I never wanted to run away with it but I enjoyed it then again I never feared clowns.I 've had Water for Elephants on my reading list for more than a year it was highly recommended to me but it just kept getting pushed down on my reading list . Finally with the movie due out I opted to make reading it a priority.I wo n't say I did n't enjoy it but I ca n't say either that it 's deserving of all the accolades it 's received . Author Sara Gruen obviously had a passion for the circus as evidenced by the research that went into this piece and the period.Normally I enjoy melodramasVictor Hugo 's Laughing Man comes to mind . But Elephants for some reason I ca n't quite put my finger on just missed.Maybe it 's just me . Some call Romeo and Juliet the greatest love story ever written . I happen to think it 's the most overrated piece of literature ever penned . I mean come on Romeo falls instantly in love with Juliet the first time he ever lays eyes on her and only after they part does he realize he forgot to ask her for her name . Can true love be founded on such a shallow premise ? No he 's just reacting to hormones . It 's young love which is not really love at all merely lust.At first I thought it was because Ms. Gruen wrote the piece from the perspective of a male protagonist and like a lot of crossgender writing it somehow lacks a certain authenticity . But Jacob is a likeable enough young man flawed recently orphaned he joins the circus to what we in the 21st century would say Find himself . He certainly is attracted to Marlena initially for all the reasons a 20yearold young man would be she looks great in her pink sequined riding costume.But it wears old after a whilewe want to see a relationship grow between them . What the story reveals is that Marlena married suffers from Battered Woman Syndrome . Her husband is mentally unbalanced and jealous to the point of insanity . He accuses her of infidelity with Jacob even though nothing has happenedexcept in their own mercenary hearts.Well we were ready to impeach Jimmy Carter for admitting he 'd lusted after women in his heart . Even the bible teaches that if your thoughts are impure if you 're unfaithful in your mind you 're just as guilty as if you 'd committed the act . But nothing has happened between these two innocents except a shared kiss . But because her husband is such a beast we accept that it is okay and feel sympathetic toward Marlena since she is committed to make it work with her unbalanced husband because her parents previously told her when she wanted to come home after admitting to them the marriage had been a mistake that she had to lie in the bed she 'd made.Yet I found neither Jacob nor Marlena very sympathetic neither character was very memorable even if the writing was sharp crisp and authentic to the period . My sympathies lay with Rosie the poor elephant who suffered such abuse at the hands of Marlena 's husband she the elephant that is eventually killed him.Now that I 've had more than a week to think about Elephants to capture what seems to be an elusive reason for my indifference to this book it occurs to me that a lot of books these days are written in this fashion they expect the reader to connect with the character in their own way.I understand what that means and I do n't disagree with ituntil it 's taken to an extreme and I 'm presented with cardboard characters caricatures.I want to connect with characters not become them . I want to see how others respond to adversity . I can always later compare what I would 've done how I would 've thought were I in those circumstances.I guess in the end that 's what was missing for me in Elephants I just could n't connect with Jacob or Marlena.Or maybe at my age I just do n't get young love anymore . ",2
"This is really a heart warming story . I especially loved the elderly Jacob . Working in Long Term Care I so could see some of my patients over the years in Jacob and perhaps even caught a glimpse of how patients over the years have seen me ! The ending warmed the cockles of my heart and left me smiling for days well all day bc I just finished it last night but I ca n't see not smiling everytime I think about it . Definitely give this book a chance . I waited when it was recommended to me bc the Circus did n't really appeal to me but it really was interesting to read about Circus life in the Depression Era . Loved the surprise twist when the epilogue picks back up at the end of the book ! Didn 's see that coming but I guess that 's the point . LOVED THIS BOOK ! ",4
"that is if they say that it is a wonderful read . It is and then some . Great characters great story great writing . Someone will make a movie of it but if I were you I 'd read it before they do . ",4
"I was concerned that I would n't be able to finish this book once purchasing because of the comments from reviewers about animal cruelty . I am very very sensitive to that topic so I was leery and I imagine others out there may be as well . However my desire to read the best seller and my husband 's assurances after listening to it that he thought I would be ok convinced me to listen to it . For those of you that might have this same problem I think you should go ahead . I really enjoyed this story and it 's worth listening to . Yes I could have done without some of the scenes but it all turns out in the end and the author does n't get too terribly descriptive or excessive so that you just ca n't listen to another second . Also these scenes are limited and they are kind of an integral part to the story . I listened to the audio version and the narrators are excellent as well . Very enjoyable story ! ",3
"I did n't get an opportunity to see the movie in the theater so I thought I 'd read the book before watching it on DVD . I 'm glad I did . I thoroughly enjoyed it . It was nothing that I expected and wonderful all the same . ",4
"Wonderfully drawn characters pageflipping plotsurprise grand finale . A long remembered main character who steals the show . A revelation of behindthescenes life with the circus . ",4
"I finally got around to reading Water for Elephants it 's been on my Kindle forever . I was interested in seeing the movie but did n't want to until I read the book.It was good especially the end . At times I wanted to finish just to move on to my next book but at the end of I was hooked on seeing what would happen next . For some reason I did n't get what all the craze was about though . Probably because I read a lot of really excellent books this year including another circus book that blew this one away . ",2
"Seems to depict a type of circus life and it 's hectic life style.. it had fun love action sadness and raw life . Interesting ! ",3
"What a great adventure this books was . I loved it . I 'll never look at an elephant the same way again . ",4
"This is a sad happy and delightful book about life in the circus in the early 1930 's . It 's a book that when finished one feels a warm satisfaction . I wish there were more books with that feel good feeling . ",4
"Water For Elephants tells the story of one man 's life with the circus as the backdrop to all of his experiences.Jacob is a student studying to become a veterinarian when his parents are killed in an accident and he is left with no family no money and he walks away from that life . He ends up picking up some work with a traveling circus and his life takes a turn that he never anticipated . He becomes a part of the circus family as dysfunctional as can be.but they put the fun in dysFUNctional ! Jacob recalls his life while he is over 90 years old and relegated to a nursing home . A nurse mentions that the circus is in town and everyone will have the opportunity to attend a show . As he sits at a dinner table with several other elderly folks one man looking to gain attention from the women makes the claim that he ..used to carry the water for the elephants . Jacob calls him a liar because Jacob knows the amount of water that an elephant consumes and those vast quantities could not be carried by one man . When a nurse asks if Jacob worked in a circus he does not answer her and that is when his memories are brought to life . As he waits for his outing the days pass and he relives the last 70+ years of his life in his mind . The stories that are told about how the circus works the value that is placed on the money coming in the care or lack there of for the animals the living conditions on the trains for the circus workers..all these things and more come alive in Jacob 's tale.While it seems that the story starts a bit hesitantly soon the reader is caught up in the tale what happens to the different people the relationship between the stars and the workers many aspects of a traveling circus are revealed even in the treatment of the animals ! This story is an interesting portrayal of life in a traveling circus and the ending is an unexpected one that takes you unaware.This is Sara Gruen 's first novel and she is nominated for two Quill writing awards . ",3
"Enjoyed this book . Appears to be well researched and was very interesting . Good story good read . ",4
"When I read a book I want to immerse myself in it . I do n't want jarring inconsistencies to remind me that it 's fiction and not particularly well written fiction at that . The speech of Jacob who supposedly is in the setting of 70 years ago is disturbingly nonauthentic . People at that time did n't use the same phrases we use now and putting them in when you 're picturing them in the dress and background of that time period is annoying and unnecessary . This author needed a better editor . It 's not a 'best ' book and the fact that the author is begging for votes makes you wonder about her integrity . ",2
"Water for Elephants is a great read . I had a hard time putting the book down . This book has great characters great scenes and a great plot . I was fascinated by the narration of Jacob as an elderly man remembering his early days on the circus . I could n't help but feel for the elder Jacob who was lonely and felt like he was just a trinket on a shelf that someone comes once a week to dust off . But the younger Jacob I found myself rooting for him all through the story.The author has done a great job at incorporating the stories of the circus in to a story that seems so real . I was left with a connectedness to the characters and their struggles their joys and their feelings for one another.If you ever have ever been to the circus and ever wondered what it would be like to work in the circus during the 1920 's and 1930 's when all the big circuses were traveling the United States then this is a book you will have to read . You will not be disappointed . ",4
"I had high expectations for this but it was kind of a chore to finish . It was too depressing ! Too much brutality to the circus animals AND the circus humans drunkenness filth squalor plus the portrait of life in the nursing home was grim . When the narrator finally gets his true love the author rushes through it in a few sentences and then goes back to the grimness . I give her two stars because she 's obviously done a lot of research on circuses and I thought the photos were charming . ",1
"I have to admit that I was n't initially excited to read this book . I kept hearing great things about it but I just had no interest in reading about a circus . Then I saw the movie preview and knew I wanted to read the book before seeing the movie I 'm rarely able to finish a book if I see the movie first . So I started reading and had a hard time getting into it at first I think this was mainly because I felt like I HAD to read the book as if I was back in school ! I eventually got past this and was able to get immersed into Water for Elephants.Usually I rate books by how I feel while reading them so my ratings are normally always subjective . In this case I felt I had to give this book 5 stars based on the fantastic writing and the amazingly rich and unique backdrop of the train circus ! It is obvious that the author did her research on circus culture and depressionera American history . She really dug into the down and dirty details of circus life . In the discussion after the last chapter you learn that many things in the story are based on true stories or anecdotes of the circus . The Bezini Brothers train circus is easily like another character in the book flawed and deeply layered like the characters themselves . I really liked how the story is told from Jacob 's perspective as a spunky 93 year old man having flashbacks of his life 70 year earlier . The altering perspectives from young to old effectively grounded the story and added another layer to his character.At times this was n't easy to read It was sad to read about the indignities of being old and I felt like Gruen 's depiction was honest and very real . Though most of all I had a really hard time reading some of the scenes with the animals . At one point I caught myself reading between my fingers as if I was trying to block the scene from view as if it was a movie . I tried skipping over one but I had to go back and read it because I felt like it was important to the development of the characters and the story . It was and they were . I just wish those scenes had n't been seemingly timed to when I was getting ready to go to sleep.Seriously I 'm so glad I finally picked up this book . I highly recommend it ! ",4
"I started this book with high expectations because of my sister 's recommendations . It exceeded them spectacularly . This was a beautiful story never a dull moment . It was so fresh and so different from other books I have read . I thoroughly enjoyed every page and was sad when it was over . I missed the characters . The ending was perfect also . I was really blown away by this . One of the best I 've read ! Truly wonderful especially for those with an old soul . ",4
"This book is filled with adventure historyand love . I 'd seen the movie and decided to read it anyway . I 'm glad I did because it was great . ",4
"I could not put it down and I found myself reading long after I should have gone to bed because I had to know what was going to happen next ! ! Wonderful story and a great ending . Quick read . ",4
"I was very pleased with this book . Not the harlequin romance I was expecting but turned out to be even more . You ca n't help but fall in love with the relationships Jacob has with Camel Walter Rosie and Marlena . The author shows his humanity towards all the menagerie and roustabouts . I read the book before I watched the movie . Which I 'm very glad I did . The book takes you on a deeper journey with Jacob at 93 and 23 . The movie totally skips over Jacob at the nursing home . They did n't build Jacob at 93 for anyone who 'd never read the book to understand him . Had I 'd just watched the movie without ever reading the book . I would walk away happy but in ignorance . I would definitely recommended this book to anyone and would advice to read the book before watching the movie . ",4
"This book was recommended to me by a few different people . I knew NOTHING about it when I went to pick it up . I was hesitant at first . I am not a fan of the circus at all . But knowing that one of the friends that had recommended it is also not a fan of the circus I was cautiously optimistic.I am glad that I gave it a chance . It is a well written story that really draws a vivid picture for you . A great reflection of the times with a love story that had me in tears in parts . Highly recommend to all . ",4
"I do n't think words are beautiful enough to describe this book . I was in love with this from the get go . Throughout this book I caught myself smiling as I read full on cheesy smile as I was totally entranced by the world I was lost in . I also found tears in my eyes over and over both in joy and sadness . This book tore through me.I ca n't really review this beyond saying that Water for Elephants was magical . If you have yet to read this which I highly doubt considering I am one of the last people on earth to read it stop everything and go start it now.This is one of those novels that I wish someone had thrust this one on me so I could have experienced the beauty that this story is earlier . ",4
"I 'll start off by saying I usually sit down to read YA fiction even though I 'm 20 years old . I prefer something light hearted and breezy . I 'd seen the movie before I actually picked up this book But I was so impressed by the movie I decided i 'd take the chance to sit back and read it . Let me say it made my morning commute to work far easier . I adore this book and have already passed it on to someone else in my family . It is one of those books that i was thinking was going to be completely different to the movie and although there are a few sizable differences it followed the plot extremely well.We first meet Jacob a ninety something withering old man remembering the good old days when he used to be able to do whatever whenever.. and eat basically anything he wanted . Something the nursing home was n't allowing him to do much to his dismay . Flicking back between old Jacob and young Jacob we 're presented with some humorous banter before delving into the heart wrenching tale of his life . I felt as though i 'd been thrust back in time and was there along with them at the circus watching everything fall in to place . It all flowed so smoothly.The author did her research she slipped right into that era without any troubles and i found it pleasant and enjoyable . A great summer read that leaves you devouring the pages wondering what is going to happen next . I highly recommend reading this . Although there are some scenes entailing sexual content it 's easily read over . Water for Elephants is a delightful delicious read . ",4
"I thought this book was wonderful ! I loved the way the author juxtaposes the young Jacob with the older Jacob such a method has the potential to be jerky or awkward but the transitions are smooth and the reader can easily manage to keep up with both storylines.Gruen is a skilled storyteller I was caught from the first page and could n't put the book down . I love when a book does that and makes me both happy and sad and this book does both of these things at various points . The most emotional aspect of the book for me was how Jacob felt about being in a nursing home his frustration at having a young mind in an older body and being treated as though he 's senile by the nursing home staff as well as his own family . This happens a lot in our culture we tend to pack away the old because we do n't want to be reminded of what we will be one day . Wonderful wonderful . 5 stars . ",4
"If you saw the movie the book is the same . It was definitely interesting enough to keep you reading . In the end though I felt a little unmoved . I expected a lot more since the ratings were so high . Maybe it just was n't the kind of book for me . It was entertaining but not too exciting . ",2
"I got this book for a free read through my Amazon prime account not sure exactly what to expect but at times I like to read outside of my normal genres and take a walk on the wild side . I was not disappointed . This is the story of a man who is looking back on his life and how his actions helped him become the man he became . After the death of his parents he jumps a freight train only to discover it is a circus train . He was one exam away from becoming a veterinarian at the time of his families death and his time with the circus not only helped form his view of the world but also his view of mankind and himself . It was moving the characters were 3 dimensional and grew during the telling of this tale . I could n't put it down . The ending was very unexpected and I found myself wondering when it was all said and done what happened next . Although this was not in a genre I normally read I would highly recommend it . I am an animal lover and his compassion for the beast that were used by the circus was very touching . I found myself routing for the good guys and hating the bad guys and thinking to myself I could so see myself doing that . There are things that happen in everyone 's life that shape them change them and help them become the people they are meant to be . This story will touch your heart and make think back over your own life with new perspective . I give it two thumbs up a must read for anyone who has ever loved and lost or who has wondered what if ? A truly great read . ",4
"Possibly the best book I 've read in nearly 20 years . An easy yet difficult at the same time read I found myself unable to put it down although there were parts so heartwrenching my eyes filled with tears throughout this realisticallywritten novel . Also the movie based on this book is one of the very few which Hollywood did not completely destroy but PLEASE read the book first ! .And guys this is n't just some flaky chicklitmy boyfriend read it with me HIS idea ! finished it first then hounded me to hurry up and finish reading it so he could discuss it with me . And he does n't usually take an interest in anything that 's not Lord of the Ringsesque.So go forth read and enjoyI own both the book and the Kindle versioneither way it 's a winner . ",4
"I saw the movie before I read the book . Wish I read the book first it was a great read . ",4
"Water for Elephants takes you to the time of the Great Depression on a circus train . I was hesitating on reading this story because I thought it would be heartbreaking . It 's hard for me to read about animal cruelty and reading about a circus there is bound to be some ugly scenes . There are some scenes that were hard to read but for the most part I felt the author did spare us the raw details . Sara Gruen knows how to write rich details in such a way that the circus jumped off the pages . I felt like I was there surround by the sounds and smells of the circus . I loved the characters and Rosie the elephant was the show stopper . It was a pleasure reading this story and a huge plus for me that it had a happy ending . ",3
"This was a delightful book . I would have never thought a story set in the 30 's about a 20year old man who runs away and joins the circus would have kept me interested . This book did . It was nice to get an understanding about how life would have been back then for Circusfolk . I took for granted for many years how a show is produced . It was so descriptive that I could hear the circus music playing.There was a few boring spots but when the book picks up the tempo it makes up for the few boring parts . Also I did n't like how the prolog made it seem like Marlena murdered August when it turns out to be Rosie the Elephant . That was the books Farfetched moment . The Kindle Version was for some reason hard to read . They would have 1 word a page . Not sure why . The upcoming movie looks like good . I do n't see Reese Whiterspoon as Marlena since of the age difference but I 'm sure it will be a great movie . ",3
"I absolutely loved the characters in this book warts and all . I ca n't tell you when I last obsessively page turned like I did with this book ! A beautiful read ",4
"The characters in this book just seem fake . They have no real personalities . I have a hard time reading a book when the characters are so one dimensional . The story seems to be contrived because of this . ",0
"A good read . Gruen hit a home run . The vivid characters make this tale interesting . It had me laughing and crying . ",4
"This was a pretty easy read and fun . It was n't a very complicated story line but I would recommend.I am glad it was part of the kindle prime library . ",3
"I 'm another reader who ca n't even begin to understand why this book was so popular or why people rave about Gruen 's writing . I thought the writing was mediocre at best and that the plot narration and dialogue were BORING ! Plus the characters are n't very likable and the frequent graphic sex scenes are completely unnecessary . I tried to like this book and I tried to finish it but I really could n't on either count . ",0
"Although the book jacket suggested the storyline as a love story I truly became engrossed in the life in the circus . After reading the novel I had to go online and check out historical facts on circus stampedes fires and train wrecks . Being a part of the circus family in the 1930 's was no easy or safe occupation.The characters are filled with depth and Jacob the protagonist gives the reader a true insight to an honest and loyal man in his twenties and nineties.Maybe it 's not always easy to put in words as to the whys but it 's definitely a book you do n't want to put down . ",4
"Story OverviewJacob Jankowski is 90or possibly 93 . He 's not really sure.When you 're five you know your age down to the month . Even in your twenties you know how old you are . I 'm twentythree you say or maybe twentyseven . But then in your thirties something strange starts to happen . It 's a mere hiccup at first an instant of hesitation . How old are you ? Oh I'myou start confidently but then you stop . You were going to say thirtythree but you 're not . You 're thirtyfive . And then you 're bothered because you wonder if this is the beginning of the end . It is of course but it 's decades before you admit it.Jacob lives in a nursing homea bit of a grumpy old man but he does OK overall . He likes to give the nurses a hard time every so often . He resents having to eat JellO and the other soft food they try to pass off in the dining room . But his mind is drifting a bit sometimes he finds himself in vivid dreamsand wakes to find himself unsure of where he is and why he is there . And when a circus sets up shop near the nursing home Jacob 's mind begins to wander moreback to when he was a young man of twentythree . Back when he knew exactly how old he was . Back when his life lay before him like a blank canvas.He was studying to be a veterinarian . Unbeknownst to Jacob his parents had mortgaged themselves to the hilt to put him through vet school . The idea was for Jacob to return home and join his father in the family practiceE . Janokowski and Son Doctors of Veterinary Medicine . But on the brink of graduation Jacob is called out of class . His parents have been killed in a car accident . He 's alone in the world . He returns home to bury his parents and finds that his legacythe vet practiceis gone . It is the Great Depression and like others his parents had fallen on hard times and there is nothing leftthe bank claims it all.Although Jacob returns to school to sit for his final exam he walks out without completing it follows a road down to the train tracks and hops onto a passing traina n action that changes everything . For this is n't an ordinary trainit is the Flying Squadron of the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth . Jacob has landed on a circus train.A less profitable and more shady circus than Ringling the Benzini Brothers circus is its own societypopulated by two basic social castes the Performers and the Working Men . They live their lives on the circus traincrisscrossing the country and setting up in various small towns around America . With his veterinary background Jacob soon finds himself in charge of the menageriethe collection of animals that perform in the circus . From horses to tigers to monkeys Jacob cares for the animals with compassion and concerndoing the best he can in difficult circumstances . After all when even the men do n't get paid some days there is n't much money for animal food.He is befriended by a married couple who perform in the circus . Marlena is the beautiful star who performs with the Liberty Horses . AugustMarlena 's tempermental husbandis the equestrian director and superintendent of animals in other words Jacob 's boss . Jacob is instantly smitten with Marlena but works hard to conceal his feelingsAugust has a dark temper that can flare unexpectedly . At first Jacob can control his attraction but when the circus takes on Rosiean elephantthings become complicated.The fates of Jacob Rosie Marlena and August become forever intertwinedlinked together by love hate jealousy and violence . How this story plays out forms the core of the booktaking a path that is full of twists turns and surprises.My ThoughtsSara Gruen does a brilliant job of creating a world that I 've never read about beforethe world of a traveling circus train in Depressionera America . What a colorful and fascinating setting this was . Gruen does a wonderful job of giving you the feel for a life of a circus worker and the story is enhanced by the blackandwhite photos of actual circus performers from the era . You feel like you 're looking at photos of the actual characters that populate the book . In the Author 's Note and the accompanying interview Ms. Gruen talks about her inspiration and research for the book . There are a million little details that give this book such an authentic feel . She really did her homework and it shows . From the words used by the characters to the descriptions of the logistics of the circus to the types of men and women who made their home in what was essentially a traveling selfcontained community I felt like I was really there on the circus train.Although the heart of the book is what happens to Jacob when he joins the circus the book alternates between the elderly Jacob in the nursing home and young Jacob in the circus . I thought this juxtasposition worked well except for the very endI personally did n't care for the final choice that Gruen made for the elderly Jacob . When the circus comes to town and triggers Jacob 's memories his story unfolds in a natural waywith the reader getting more and more drawn in to Jacob 's story as it unfolds in the book and in his memories.In addition Gruen establishes a framing device in the prologue that influences the reader from the very start of the novel . I found this particular choice extremely effectiveand I loved how she pulled it off and tied it together at the end . I love when an author plays with her readers a little bit and Gruen did a great job in this aspect.If you 're looking for a movie to go with the book I must recommend Dumbo . I kept picturing scenes from that movie as I read the book and I could completely imagine this story being told in a similar way.My Final RecommendationI definitely see why this book was a bestseller . It offers something for everyonea unique setting a bit of history a romantic triangle animals an examination in what it means to grow old . This book effortlessly fits all of this in without seeming forced or strained . And on top of that it is just a good story that makes you want to find out what happens next . If you have n't read it already I think it is definitely worth a read . If I was attending the Benzini Brothers circus I would be standing up and yelling Encore ! Encore ! ",3
"I enjoyed being transported to another time and place . To a vivid colorful existence long gone . I admit I expected this book to be fabulous what with the hoopla and the fact that I saw it front and center for so long every time I went inside any bookstore . The writing was n't why I gave it five stars but the story and the research was impeccable . ",3
"This is honestly one of the very best books I have read in a very long time . The author keeps you wanting to turn page after page . I could n't put it down . I highly recommend this book . ",4
"I really enjoyed reading this book . I was able to picture everything in my head just like it were a movie ! The writer is brilliant ! ",4
"LOVE LOVE THIS BOOK ! I do n't love fiction but I love literature and this one really made me happy ! I would recommend this to anyone and everyone ! Do n't bother with the movie though . ",4
"Outstanding book very well written . A couple snafoos with the storyline but overall DEFINITELY worth reading . I did n't think it would be the book for me the circus and all but I am so glad I read it . I would definitely recommend it . ",4
"I usually dont read that many fiction books . I happened across this one and did not put it down until I was done . What a great book ! Great animal tale as well as adventure and romance . I didnt think the ending was predictable as the others had said . The ending was perfect . Highly reccomend . ",4
"Loved it ! This was a really complete story . The characters were fascinating the setting exotic and the story enthralling from the beginning . The writing did n't get in the way of the story which I love . I loved the animal characters and their relations with the humans . It had a Life of Pi vibe but was more grounded in reality . I got very attached to the main character as an old man it jumps back and forth but not in an annoying way really lends itself to telling the epic of his life while only delving into a few years of it . The author shows restraint describing any suffering of animals and lowly circus workers which I appreciate ca n't stand when they knock you over the head with it . Very well researched no boring details just the good stuff ",4
"This is a great heart warming wellwritten story that is probably one of my favorite books ever . It is one of those books you do n't want to reach the end because you do n't want to leave the people and the world the author has created . Highly highly recommend ! ! ",4
"While this was a quick read it also lacked something for me . I would recommend reading it and judging for yourself . ",2
"Following a family tragedy Jacob Jankowski abandons life as a college student and instead of working as a veterinarian alongside his father finds himself caring for animals in a traveling circusthe Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth . Jacob befriends numerous characters from the glamorous performer Marlena to the alcoholic Camel who works setting up the circus to the Benzini Brothers ' star elephant Rosie . As he travels between different castes of the circus and across America Jacob narrates the triumphs and hardships experienced by the people and animals of the Great Depressionera attraction.Interspersed throughout the novel are chapters that introduce the reader to the presentday nonagenarian Jacob as he laments his current living arrangement in a nursing home.Despite several graphic descriptions of animal abuse and the cruelty displayed the novel 's antagonists the story is ultimately fun escapist and sentimental with an optimistic if improbable conclusion . ",3
"This wellreasearched book brought the depressionera railway circus to life . The characters and circus scenes are described in such detail that after reading the book you feel like you have seen a movie . The nitty gritty reality of circus life does not detract from the magic of the circus . ",3
"Ever since I got my Kindle I 've been reading a lot more . Im SO happy that Water for Elephants was one of my picks ! This book was not at all what I expected . It was MORE ! ! It kept me interested since the prologue . I could n't put it down I absolutely loved this book . I highly recommend that if to everyone ! I 'm now trying to get all my friends to read it . ",4
"Well I ca n't say anything more then what has already been said about this book . It is a very good read and I certainly recommend it . ",3
"Water for Elephants captivates the reader with its deeply moving and touching storyline.It is charmingmagical . laced with sadnesshumourjoy . The story of a young man who loses everything dear to him in this world and then finds meaning and happiness in the most unexpected and least likely place.a traveling circus . The book really brings to life the spirit and times of a traveling circusset in the backdrop of the Great Depression . Its many colorfulunique characters vividly bring to life this largly forgotten bygone era.Water for Elephants is simply a pleasure to read . The only drawback to the book is that there is quite a bit of cursing and several sexually explicit passages that might offend certain readers.If you can overlook or skip these rough spots you will certainly experience great pleasure in reading Water for Elephants . ",3
"As an older person I can relate to the 1930s and to reflecting back to my childhood . I have not seen the movie nor do I have any desire to see the movie version of this well written novel . One can not improve on a great story . ",4
"this book was very interesting . i loved the history of the circusand the reality of the story . engrossing and wonderfully written novel . ",4
"Yes despite disagreeing with my whole book club and from the looks of it many other amazon reviewers I can not give this book a standing ovation . I was even reluctant to give it 4 stars a high 3 would be more just . Do n't be turned away from this frank begining I did enjoy the book and I can echo the reviewer who noted this as a great summer read It is ! And it was painstakinly researched you can tell but for me that was part of the problem . First off a good summer read is not the same to me as a great read . It was quick painless entertaining but I was not invested in the characters . That is a crucial difference for me . And while I received quite a good history lesson as regards circuses and other depression era details I felt at the same time I was reading someones writing exercise or assignment . There is a feeling of the author making sure she includes all that she has learned about good writing . But read it you shall as my review will be outweighed by the others just do n't expect more then a jolly good time . ",3
"I loved this story . I purchased it a while ago when it was on sale and just got around to reading it . The story was memorable and it was fascinating to read and learn about life in a traveling circus in the early 1900 's . I immediately looked for other books by this author but since they were n't rated as well I have n't gotten around to reading any of those yet . ",4
"Review originally posted at GoneWithTheWords.comThe book begins with ninety year old Jacob remembering a very intense and disturbing event from his time with the circus that will leave you wanting to find out how it got to that point . The chapters then alternate between old Jacob and his very depressed state at the Assisted Living Facility and him remembering his journey with the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth . The circumstances on how he came to join the circus as the show Veterinarian were very sad . He went from being a young man about to graduate from Cornell his whole future ahead of him and the possibility of FINALLY losing his virginity to having no one and nowhere to go.Once on the show he meets August the show 's equestrian director and superintendent of animals . August is one very questionable character . He can be the most charming man around and moments later he can turn into the most terrifying creature you 've ever encountered . He also meets Marlena August 's wife and falls in love with her on the spot . At a later point the show aquires an elephant named Rosie who is thought to be stupid because she wo n't learn to do anything the trainers try to make her do . Rosie plays a huge part in this story and she gave me the biggest surprise in this book . This story also takes you on an eye opening journey through the sad conditions circus employees and animals were under in 1931.Water for Elephants was a completely different read for me . It was Adult and it was realistic and I loved it . I was a little skeptical about the circus theme . Ca n't say I 've ever been curious enough about its workings to read a book revolving around one but I am so glad I did because it was sooo much more than that ! It made me laugh cry and gasp in astonishment sometimes . It was a huge plus knowing this will be a movie coming out in April starring Robert Pattinson and Reese Witherspoon as the main characters . I just pictured both of them the whole time ! D ",4
"I did n't see the movie but saw this book available for lending so grabbed it . I 'm so glad I did . It was a lovely story with people and animals . It seemed to be extremely well researched especially regarding the circus terms . Some of the animal mistreatment scenes were hard to read but again it seemed correct for that time and location . ",4
"This is a GREAT read and I really enjoyed every bit of it . I loved the last few chapters the best . I even cried and laughed out loud several times while reading this book . It is now one of my alltime favorites and I 'd recommend this book to anyone who is an adult . ",4
"I liked how the old man told the story of his life . The main character was easy to like . The love between Mar Lena and Jacob was believable . The way the old Jacob bonded to the nurse was nice . Interesting characters with a good storyline . ",3
"I loved this book . There 's nothing gimmicky or cloying about it . It 's an odd fabulously detailed intriguing story about a time and place totally unfamiliar to me . It 's beautifully written and has wonderful unforgettable characters . ",4
"I was surprised to find that Water for Elephants did not live up to all the hype . In the beginning of the book I was hooked . Jacob Jankowski starts off the story as a man in his nineties reminiscing about his days with The Benzini Brothers traveling circus . Jacob experiences a family tragedy and runs away ending up as a veterinarian with the traveling circus . The animals are mistreated the workers are mistreated and the ring leader Uncle Al is an egotistical greedy SOB that you will love to hate . The things that Jacob witnesses are truly appalling.The research that Gruen did in preparation for this story was definitely the most interesting aspect of the book . However then comes the middle of the book . I got very bored and found it hard to finish chapter after chapter . Now having finished the book I understand that Gruen was just setting up the end of the story . The middle was a necessary evil.Without giving anything away the ending was interesting . Predictable but interesting . I enjoyed the book because I love the era early 1930 's and the characters in the book . Read this book but disregard the five star reviews and hype surrounding the book . ",2
"I decided to start writing reviews since I always read through them before buying a book . I 'll probably only give a handful of fivestar reviews . This and Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet are my favorite books from what I 've read this past year and I 've done a lot of reading . The story just sucked me in . Usually when a book goes back and forth between past and present there is one time period I prefer over another . I will trudge through the less preferred period of time just to get to the better part . In this book I enjoyed both past and present equally . It 's just well done . ",4
"Though the movie was also very good and quite accurate to the book the book is by far the better story . I was so attached to these characters and felt truly involved in their lives . I read this book much faster than I usually read because I just could n't wait to read what happened next . Recommended for sure . ",4
"I had trouble putting it down . I so badly wanted to know Jacob had a happy ending that I had to keep going . ",4
"One of the most enjoyable reads out there A chance to run away with the circus a well written page turner and wonderful train ride through the age of the traveling circus.I Read this after several years of dealing with aging parents Loved this thread in water for elephants . But the characters of the circus world fill the pages with all their escapades and big top adventures . If you want to escape into a book pick this one up ! Loved every minute of it ! ",4
"What a beautiful story Sara has woven with Water for Elephants . It really made me reflect on how difficult it must be for elderly people to have lost most of their friends and loved ones and how them can only relive the memories of their lives . This book was captivatinglove adventurefriendship excitement betrayal and the special love between animals and humansall rolled into one wonderful tale . From the time I started reading itit was all I could do to put it downkept me awake reading until I could n't keep my eyes open anymore.I will definitely be keeping watch for any new books written by Sara Gurenshe is a fantastic story teller . ",4
"I was hesitant to read this book not sure why . I am very glad I did . It amazes me that it was written by a woman not to be sexist but she offers the most astonishing points of view verbage and mindset of multiple male characters . I thought it was a great story very well written . ",4
"I have never read anything like this and I loved every page . Very few books have actually made me gasp in shock . There is so much about the traveling circus that is appalling yet intriguing at the same time . And who knows what is fact and fiction ? Gruen blends the two beautifully . I am now really interested to learn more about this era of the circus . I read my copy in 3 days and have already loaned it out . Trust me this is a good book ! And so different from any story line I 've ever read . ",4
"I love this book ! I found it hard to put down at times . I would recommend this book ! ",4
"This is a perfect combination of the tender innocence and bizarre sophistication of a time when young boys ran off to join the circus . Loved the weaving of past and present and the character of the young boy who gets drawn into a mess that turns out to be the love and joy of his life . ",3
"Who knew the circus could be so full of drama ? This book takes place in a time when OSHA was n't available before PETA and the like . Sara Gruen does an excellent job walking us through this time exposing us to the trials of finding yourself . It 's more of a story of self discovery with the circus playing second show . Just a great read and perfect for book club . ",4
"The book has some good charactors interesting story line but some of the charactors seemed a little flat to me . For example the roommate in the stock car I some how felt more connected to him than Jacob . Overall a fun and light read but just lacking a little depth to the main charactors . I will absolutly read other Sara Gruen I think she has some good talent as a writer . Just my opinion . ",2
"Great story compelling . Read it in one sitting . Lots of wonderful inside information about the circus elephants the 1930 's . A wonderful book ! ",4
"The parts of this book that dealt with the main character in old age were very insightful and I enjoyed that . But quite honestly had I known that it would detail the abuse of the circus animals and then also the detailed sex acts I would never had purchased this . I wish I knew how to delete it from my Kindle . I also wish someone else had mention this in the reviews that I saw . I NEVER stop reading a book but had to quit about 35 % of the way thru it it was disgusting and I am not a prude.I would never recommend this book nor will I venture to the movie . ",0
"I lost the plot somewhere between the strip scene the masturbating and the detailed sex scenes . If you like that kind of stuff this book is for you . ",0
"I found this book to be between 3 and 4 stars but closer to a four . The first sentence had a grammatical error and the descriptions were too involved and wordy so I was afraid I would be disappointed . I was n't . It turned out to be a wellwritten book . Gruen actually took me to the circus world in the early thirties and I lived it along with Jacob . Not only that but seeing Jacob in his nineties gives the reader a new appreciation for the elderly . Although I could have done without the cursing and gritty sex scenes I still found the book interesting at times delightful and well worth the read . ",3
"As a piece of light beachreading this is competent . But it 's also boring and flat and the characters unbelievable . It 's very hard to locate the conflict for the first half of the book and the shifts from the mind of a 93year old to that of 23year old is gimmicky and not at all convincing . ",1
"I tried to read this a few months ago and guess I was just not in the right place however with the movie coming out I decided to make sure I read the book before seeing the movie . Picked up my Kindle and never looked back . It 's just a great story and I enjoyed every minute of it . The ending is absolutely wonderful what we can all hope for at the end of our lives . ",4
"I really enjoyed reading Water for Elephants it is such a different type of story than what I 'm usually used to reading . I loved how it was about a circus group and the sortof behind the scenes of it all . I can not wait for the movie to come out ! ",4
"I am always cautious about best summer read type comments as I have often been disappointed . Not this time fantastic read looking forward to the movie ",4
"Gruen masterfully brings us into the world of the Depressionera traveling circus with vivid descriptions and masterful storytelling . The characters feel like real people and within the first page any reader will become deeply engrossed in this beautiful story . A gem of a book ! ",4
"Honestly I did not think I was going to like this book but I wanted to try and read something different . I am really glad I did this book was just pure gold . I could not put it down ! ",4
"Spolier Alert kinda I really enjoyed the reflection of the characters past and present . I found the love story to be a bit wishy washy . when visting the main characters past I did n't really buy into the love at first sight idea . Not sure why but I was asking why ? Why did Marlena fall in love with Jacob ? What made him stand out so much ? It sounds bad that i say that but I just did n't feel a spark between the characters . The whole damsel in distress was manufactured . Additionally it was super convenient the way they ended up together in the end . Overall I did enjoy the story and I was more drawn to the present version Jacob . ",2
"Water for Elephants is a novel . which is compelling artfully conceived and written and reaches into fringe areas of human experience which when plumbed can furnish discernment of common interest and experience with characters in those fringe areas.. A good read . ",3
"I would like to thank Ms. Gruen for writing such a pleasant tale . I knew a child who once ran away to join the circus and her life did not have as happy of an ending as did Marlena 's . I thought of her often as Jacob 's life unfolded and as Rosie saved them all . ",4
"Unusual subject and written in first person narrative of a man early and aged . Amazing feat given that the author is herself a woman . Story itself is a bit thin and somewhat sinister . Rather strange at times . Overall I would rate it as instructive about the history of circus but with some reservation on the storyline . ",2
"I was first drawn to this novel based on a short synopsis I had read on Amazon and after many views decided to buy the novel . I have never been so pleased with a book purchase as I am with this one . Just reading the jacket alone draws you in to Gruen 's amazing literary ability . I finished the book about a month ago and am now on to Kite Runner yet I ca n't help to be disappointed as I keep comparing it to Water for Elephants and am coming up short . Congrats to Sara Gruen I am absolutely blown away by how well this woman can not only write but how easily one can picture the entire novel and feel as though they are right there at the circus . The last few chapters I found myself both grimacing and smiling completely drawn into the book and upset that it could n't last longer . If there is one book that will stay with you for a long time I am convinced it is this one . ",4
"I love this book ! Read it when it first came out and then my dog ate it Guess she liked it too ! So I just had to reorder it so it would be in my collection . ",4
"I absolutely loved this story ! Elderly man looking back on his life and what a life it was ! what a love story ! ",4
"Jacob Jankowski is a 93year old man in a nursing home and very cantankerous . The circus has come to the nursing home residents and this takes Jacob back in time in the book as he tells his story . The book goes back and forth between the past and present tense.When Jake 's parents die unexpectedly in a tragic accidenthe is 23years old and lost now . The house was taken away since unbeknowst to Jake his parents had been in debt and the house is taken away and all because his father could n't let the animals go hungry . He and Jake were in a veterinary practice together and now it 's all gone . Jake not knowing what to do went back to school to finish his final exams . He walks out in the middle of it though and goes toward the train tracks . He climbs aboard a circus train unknowingly which is the Benzini Brothers The Greatest Show on Earth . From then on his life changes forever.Camel is the older man that takes Jake under his wing and shows him the ropes more or less . He is given the job of cleaning up after the animals and later acted as a vet . Jake is introduced to Walter and at first Walter deeply resents Jake at first and having to share his quarters with him . But when Jake saves his pet Queenie the two strike a friendship.The boss August is a hateful cruel man . When an elephant Rosie is brought in to the mix August is absolutely sadistic to that poor animal . Jake saves Rosie from being killed by August more than a few times in the book.And the other part of the story is Marlena August 's sweet wife . Jake falls in love with her almost immediately and knows that Marlena is miserable with her mentally ill husband . She falls for Jake as well and when it is discovered that they are sneaking away by August a horrible disaster strikes and Jake almost does n't survive.The book comes to an earthshattering climax and has quite the ending which is a surprise . ",3
"I loved it ! Her characters were impressive and her descriptive narrative provides a vivid setting . Both Jacob 's young life as a student and a vet for a traveling circus and as we first meet him in his 90 's in the nursing home are set before you in beautiful & sometimes heartbreaking detail.Benzini Brother 's circus is portrayed in all it 's glory and in all it 's horror . The Depression era and circus life at the time is richly described and well researched . It is a murder mystery whose ending is both surprising and yet somehow righteously predictable . Still it was FUN ! You see the murder in the beginning but not until the end when you have all of the story behind you do you get to see the truth . I cheered as did many in my book club ! We all agreed that we had never LAUGHED when a murderer was revealed in a novel until Water For Elephants ! I suppose that the best way to describe this story is that it is a paradox . Our book club enjoyed it very much with few exceptions . It was a surprising story and one that stays with you . You will never look at the circus or a nursing home and its residents the same way again ! ",4
"I was right there with the characters smelling the sawdust hearing the cacaphony . Sara did a great job crafting her characters including the circus itself . This is a delightful book that lingers long after the cover is closed.Janine Latusauthor of If I Am Missing or DeadIf I Am Missing or Dead A Sister 's Story of Love Murder and Liberation ",4
"This story alternates between presentday and flashbacks through the mind of our now 93yearold main character . The historical aspects of this book are incredibly wellresearched and do a great deal to advance the plot of the story . Unfortunately the presentday scenes are rather dull . I found myself skimming over those sections because I was eager to return to reading about Jacob 's life working on the circus in the 1930s.The love story in this book a tale of forbidden love between Jacob and Marlena the married star of the big top show is sweet but ultimately predictable . With the exception of one sharp twist I felt that the love story ending of this novel is fairly cookie cutter . That being said I ca n't deny the fact that I was thoroughly entertained by every page . ",2
"highly recommend this book . I could n't put it down ! ! ! ! every chance I got that I sat for more than 5 minutes I had this book in my hands reading it ! ! ! ",4
"This book is one of my favorites at least in a long time . Way more than a book about circus life . great for a bookclub too . we all loved this book . ",4
"Gruen 's latest is a page turner from start to finish . Jacob Jankowski tells his story both in the form of memories while in a nursing home and as the real time experiences of a 23year old failed veterinary student in the midst of the Depression . Failing his exams Jacob flees home and hooks up with a circus he survives in this brutal world only because he has some skill with animals . Gruen paints a marvelous completely believable portrait of a circus of the thirties where the ruthless Uncle Al rules with the power of life and death . He deviates from planned appearances only to pick up the pieces of other failed circuses . Once someone ceases to be of use to the show or if the money does n't roll in as planned they 're gonesometimes forever . It 's a harsh world but apparently historically accurate . And the old black and white photos at the beginning of each chapter are fascinating ! Gruen 's meticulous research makes the bookthe plot line is a bit predictable and the ending a fantasy . But this is a great summer or airplane readengrossing but not too heavy . Highly recommended . ",4
"Water for Elephants was one of those books that was difficult to put down . The prose flowed very smoothly . The subject of the circus world during the depression was well researched and make accessible to the reader . It could be read on many levels but even a surface level was satisfying.My only problem as with many best sellers was that the action was in places not very realistic . This may be a bit picky but after suffering from a concussion nobody is ready to climb on top of a moving train and hop between cars no matter how pumped they are with adrenaline . Such lapses in credibility hurt an otherwise wonderful novel . ",3
"I had this book on my quesionable lists to read I was concerned about the animal abuse I read about in some reviews . After seeing so many other geat reviews pop up in the last few months i bought it.it 's a blast keeps you going from page to page . i would guess the abuse of animals is realistic to what happened in those days . hightly recommended . its a fast and entertaining read ",4
"I picked up this book at the airport with little idea what it was about and spent my vacation trying to find time to read ! What a fantastic novel tight writing excellent character development a great surprise ending . I recommend it to anyone who ever heard stories about the Depression from their grandparents and for those who did n't too . ",4
"Loved this highly entertaining story . Very different from all the other rehashed story lines out there . Unique and wonderfully written . ",3
"The book is extremely well written . The descriptions are so vivid you can almost smell the hay . But it is filled with violence vulgar language and sex which I guess is realistic considering the setting . I read a few chapters but could not continue . Returned it to the library . ",1
"Ever wonder about characters you 've seen around carnivals then you 'll enjoy this book about train travel circus . Great cast of people and animals . Easy to read book and print . ",4
"Gives very clear descriptions of life in the circus and it is n't always lovely as some folks would imagine . Enjoyed reading this book but it is n't for everyone ",2
"Water for Elephants is an immensely entertaining well researched novel . It 's easy to see why this book is so popular . That said there are a few short comings some minor some more substantial.The research about depression era circus ' not that I profess to be an expert is excellent and makes a fascinating backdrop to the story . While the author makes great use of her research the tone of the novel particularly the dialogue is too contemporary to sound authentic . While this is a fault to some extent it is n't one that will bother most readers . In fact it makes the novel more readablelikely contributing to it 's success . Fans of Faulkner and Steinbeck of course may beg to differ.I 'm not sure why the author chose to make the novel 's principal villain Jewish and allegedly Paranoid Schizophrenic . The fact that he is Jewish is irrelevant to the plot aside from the fact that it apparently makes his wife 's family more likely to disown her and his behaviour while deplorable at times is n't consistent with Schizophrenia at all . These may seem like minor points but they bothered me a little because they play into stereo types and were completely unnecessary.The romance that develops between Jacob and Marlena is predictable and uninspired . The murder during the stampede is a little too contrived and highly improbable and the final chapter is a little too sentimental for my tastes . But despite these grievances I was won over.The first half of the novel is definitely stronger than the second half . Gruen 's writing style is accessible entertaining and often very funny . Jacob as an old man is cantankerous and vulnerable and his frustration with growing old is truly heartbreaking . These ` present day ' chapters are arguably the strongest in the novel . While the love story is admittedly unremarkable it was fascinating to read about life in the circus . Greun weaves a series of amusing and presumably real at least according to circus lore anacdotes into the story.All in all it is n't hard to see why this novel is a bestseller . True the love story is a little flat but overall the novel is hard not to like . Water for Elephants is n't a literary masterpiece but it 's enormously entertaining . If you are willing to overlook a few faults it is well worth reading . ",3
"This is the incredible story of a man who was forced to say goodbye to the life he knew and expected to have to take a chance on something wild and unpredictable . This is a story that lets you see the real person that this man becomes with imperfections and all . The author does an incredible job of telling the story about this man with a man 's voice and perspectives . The author is a woman and if you did n't notice that you would n't be able to guess that from reading the story . It is surprising how well she is able to get into the mind of a man . One thing about this story that I truly loved was that it was told from a real time perspective and a future perspective . We get to see what happens to this man after his long journey . Plus we see that that journey never actually ends . I ca n't say enough about this book . It was a pleasure to read each and every word on each and every page . I give it the highest review . ",4
"Are you kidding me ? This book was a best seller ? It could have been written by a middle school student . I read this book in two days flat . The characters were very shallow . The only reason I 'm giving it 2 stars is because parts of it were cute but overall it was a waste of my time . ",1
"I loved this book . Writing was excellent and the story very revealing of what went on at that time . I purchased this copy as a gift . ",4
"This book is very well written ! I loved the suspense and the authenticity of the main character . I loved that it presented a view of animals as feeling creatures without being remotely sappy . I love the brutal truth of life during the depression and the realities of aging in America . I read it in two days and put alls of other things on the back burner . It is a great book ! ",4
"This is one of the best books I have read . From page one until the end I was completely taken with the story . I was disappointed when the book ended and I ordered the next book this author Sara Gruen had written.I highly recommend this book . Well done~ ! ! The story takes you to the circus and makes you feel as if you are living with the characters.I ca n't say enough good about this book~ ! ! ",4
"This is exactly what reading fiction should be and that is a story full of interesting history characters and a plot that leaves you guessing and that is full of emotions . I waited so long to read this book and I have no idea why for I enjoyed it immensely . ",4
"I was so pleased that I read the book before seeing the movie . It gave me an insight into how people perceive the elderly and how they react to the situations they are forced into . It also was a great love story . ",4
"I loved this book ! I found it absorbing engaging and thoroughly vivid in its portrayal of the colorful world of Depressionera circus life . I also loved the characterization of this nonagenarian who refused to let ageism stifle him in the nursing home where he resided instead spinning his tale to his Nurse on her last day with him . ",3
"This book was just pointless . I feel like I was reading a novel generated by a random plot generator which spit out a circus an old guy and a young guy nothing had the tactical feel of reality in this book . It was mediocre at best . Even the title of the novel was anticlimactic given that one of old Jacob 's nursing home fellows said he used to carry water for elephants and then not mentioned again . This novel is devoid of anything making it worth reading Complex plot ? No Mercurial characters ? No Insights into the human condition ? No Stupendous vocabulary andor Joycean constructions with the English language ? No . Instead we are left with chapter after chapter of a book better suited as children 's literature . ",1
"This book was wonderful . My wife and I both read it and enjoyed it . It had a lot of depth . ",3
"I found this book fairly well crafted but did not believe in the characters or the story which seemed awfully thin and contrived . The author admits in a postscript that she borrowed extensively from old newspaper stories and made up composite characters based on reallife people and animals which is close to plagiarism if you ask me . The main character Jacob who is 93 and tell the story in flashbacks is much too lucid for his age to be credible and Marlena the woman he eventually steals comes across as flat and uninteresting.Like other reviewers I found the dialogue artificial and at times anachronistic . Have n't seen the movie but not much source material to work with . ",1
"Sara Gruen has an unbelievable capability of describing filth in all of it 's trashy detail . If you like gratuitously vulgar descriptions of adult scenes this book is for you . ",1
"It was a very interesting story with true facts within the story line . Anyone who has an adventurous side would like this book . ",3
"The amount of time and effort it took the author to obtain the FACTS incorporated into this story are SO evident and appreciated . Both the facts and fiction parts of this novel will keep you in thought long after completing the last page ! ",4
"I gave this 3 stars only because I did get engrossed with the novel at some point and felt propelled toward the end of the story . However everything that others have said about the believability of some of the situations holds true as in Jacob taking the knife away from Walter when he would need it most . My main problem with the story was the constant going back and forth from the 90 something character to the young Jacob . The author did n't make these transitions meaningful in any way . There was no reason why at some point it switched back in time and then for no reason whatsoever it switched to real time . And although I understand people can become forgetful and cranky in their old age there was no way that the old Jacob was similar to the personality of the young Jacob . People may get older but their basic personalities stay the same and these two Jacobs were totally dissimilar . And the author spent too much time in letting us know the horrid aspects of old folks in an old folks home and left us with none of the joys of companionship and the other qualities that people can enjoy in assisted living . It got to the point where I skipped through the old parts especially because they did n't advance the story line . ",2
"My husband loved this one . He is an avid reader and likes reading all kinds of books . This is a good one . ",4
"This book may start out a little dry but it gets to be super good shortly after . I really loved this book and would recommend watching the movie after you read the book ! ",4
"This was a good book not one of the best I 've read because it was kind of slow to get started . Once I got into the characters and plot it was a really interesting look into circus life not like any other books I 've read . ",3
"One of the best books we ` ve my wife and I ever read . Wonderful character building fascinating story line lots of suspense and in every way a great book . I could n't put the book down once I started . ",4
"My good mate John down at Matilda 's book store in Mount Waverley ordered this book in for me and it would have to be my favourite novel so far this year.The reader is introduced to 90 something year old Jacob who is a resident in an Old Folk 's Home . Jacob talks about his past beginning with not completing his Vet Exams and finding himself in a travelling cirus during the Depression Era in America . Beneath the tinsel and cotton candy you find that the circus consists of hard men who never thought twice about throwing anybody from a moving train.There is brutality and violence in this book and also the search for dignity in this cold tough world . Naturally 5 stars for this book . ",4
"I wish this book never ended . the time period the characters the pace of the story were all perfect . I was sorry to see the pages winding down . this was by far the best book i 've read in the last two years ! ",4
"The plot is standard the notebook territory and so are the characters . This is a romance novel that leaves you hanging when it starts to get good . Its exciting until the 340 page mark where at some point you realize there is no extra layer of intelligence guiding the plot dialogue or character developement that could turn it into a classic . Later the plot goes completely off the rails and out of the hands of the main character as people are murdered and Jacob himself almost becomes a murderer . This book is mostly dark stuff involving death sex and money . At times its cheesy and conservative unrealistic . Its quite an exciting book and a fast read but there is a lot more that could have been done . The author is quite talented and I hope her next book is a classic but this time she written a somewhat formulaic generally nasty story here that ends in a wreck . The author cleans up Jacob 's dilemnas for him by making the plot complete chaos at the end . A little too lazy for me . The book is standard romance with some problems unfortunately . ",2
"I greatly enjoyed reading this . It is not going to start any deep conversations but it was very well researched and keeps the reader engaged . Some events were rather predictable though . In a sense this book has two endings . The first becomes clear a little bit before the reader reaches it . The second and final ending is a nice surprise ",2
"one of the elements I enjoyed was the switching back and forth of the main character 's life as a young and old man and how he experiences it . Well written with a formidable nemises . it 's difficult to communicate a coherent thought here being in the middle of an allergy_ induced sneezing fit ",3
"I could write a book about this book but will keep it short and simple . This book tells a very entertaining story of Jacob never referred to as Jake in the book and a twist of fate that sees his fate aligned with a circus after his parents are killed . It 's a very engaging book well written and enough to keep you reading into the wee hours of the night . I ca n't imagine the movie could possibly keep up but may give it a shot . I do n't see Robert Pattison as Jacob necessarily.Great book ! And for those who seemed to think the book fell flat you 're digging too deep for meaning relax and enjoy a good read . ",4
"Though the plot occasionally compels pageturning the author 's tin ear for dialogue and the weak characterization make Water for Elephants much less exciting than one might expect given the hype that it has attracted . ",1
"such an amazing book..interesting plot line..amazing characters..vivid real amazing . ",4
"From the moment that Jacob Jankowski hops a ride on a circus train outside of Itaca New York the story pulls you right into the circus life . A tragic chain of events have caused Jacob to hop on this train but the ride also causes him to meet the love of his life . The author does a brillant job of telling this story of Jacob 's circus life from his own memory at the age of ninty or is it ninty three while recovering in a nursing home . This story in a story is truly delightful how Jacob handles the aging process and the other people in the nursing home . I was very impressed how the author handled the transition between stories . While the circus brought many people laughter and excitment during the Great Depression and Prohibition I found that the life was very tragic for some of the workers and animals . It was frankly a very hard life . ",4
"Simply a great read . Gruen grabs you from page one plunks you down into the main character 's universe alternately a presentday nursing home and the depressionera circus . You care . You ride up and down with him and experience everything first hand.This is a great story blending historic facts at least facts in an anthropological kind of way she did her research for sure and great fiction . She uses the flashback as a vehicle perfectly blending the main character 's presentday circumstances with his past lending a gravitas to his current feelings and actions that draws you in and holds you tight.I must admit the very ending was a bit of a stretch on the imagination but by that time I had tears in my eyes and was willing to suspend a bit more disbelief than I normally would . I was sad to see this end.Kindle purchases be forewarned each chapter has an historic photo from the circus they show up OK on the screen but the paper print might show this better . I did n't have a major problem with it the convenience of the Kindle outweighs the slight fuzziness of the images ' resolution but it is worth mentioning . ",4
"From start to finish this book captures the readers attention.It contains romance and adventure unequaled by anything I have read recently . From the title of the book you might not think the story would be any good . You are in for a big surprise ! It 's no wonder this book has almost 5 star rating.Check it out . You wo n't regret it ! ",4
"Tapping into a unique and compelling piece of Americana Sara Gruen has created an entertaining novel under the big top of the traveling depressionera circus . Cutting in and out of the present the novel 's 90 or 93 yearold narrator Jacob Jankowski brings us into both his life in a nursing home and his incredible 3 and a half months many years ago as the vet of the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth . Like Salieri in Amadeus Jacob views his past as if happening in the moment and we are treated to a host of nasty and pathetic as well as complex and individualized characters who live from stop to stop along the rail lines and entertain in towns small and large for the rubes.Although this setup is terrific the love story around which the novel turns is thin and familiar and the writing somewhere around page 250 becomes repetitious and uninteresting . Even so this quick read is well worth the time as an entertainment . I have no doubt as well that Hollywood will pick up on this work as it lends itself completely to a 3star movie . It 's got love it 's got hate it 's got tears and it 's got laughter . And what a field day Hollywood will have with Rosie the goodhearted Polish pachyderm who cracks open the plot and is nothing but adorable . ",3
"Water for Elephants is a superb book with a great beginning a great middle and a great end . This book is surly destined to be on the required reading list along with books such as The Great Gatsby The Red Badge of Courage and Hemingway 's best.The book begins when Jacob the hero looses his parents to an accident at the time he is scheduled to sit for his final examine at Cornell University and become a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine . Under duress and without finishing the exam he walks out of the exam building and into a tumultuous life with the circus.At the age of 90 Jacob finds himself in an assisted care facility where he blows his top when a fellow senior a lawyer claims to have worked for the circus and delivered water for elephants . Thus begins the story of Jacob 's life as a vet for a disreputable circus owner a novel that ends as Rosie the elephant in the story dispatches the evil ring master.From incident to incident the mindcapturing story flows from rich characters making this book one for the ages . Tis a great read . ",4
"As a small town childI always loooked forward to the circus coming to town.I thought this book would bring back memories.HoweverI was greatly disappointed that the author toook what should have been a good family story and infiltrated it with sexual incidents that added nothing to the story.I suppose the author was trying to make the book more saleable I would not recommend this bookmost certainly not to young readers.What a ruination of what good have been a good story ",1
"Jacob Jankowski 's parents perfunctorily die in the opening of this mawkish melodrama and Jacob drops out of vet school and runs away to join the circus where he finds fast work as a veterinarian for a menagerie of anthropomorphic animals . Jacob also finds romance not with the animals adventure and a real Snidely Whiplash of a villain . Sara Gruen copies the manipulative crowdpleasing instincts of Stephen King and Ron Howard without displaying any of the personality seen in those men 's work . She writes in a bland transparent easytoread prose of cliche predictability and cheap sentiment . This is the kind of book you can read in a single afternoon without ever having to pause to think . It goes down like a bag of circus cotton candy and it 's about as nourishing . Strictly LCD entertainment . It 's like Titanic at the circus ! It 's like Seabiscuit with an elephant ! After reading one of the most ludicrous endings ever written in the history of populist claptrap I think I 'm being more than generous with my two stars . To the critics who overpraised Water for Elephants I offer this quote from the novel Surely you ca n't all be happy with this this pap ? ",1
"The strength of the book is its narrative flow . I particularly liked the little catchwords that usually connected the assisted living chapters with the circus chapters . Gruen generally wrote in such connections and I found them both ingeniously crafted and useful in uniting the narrative.In addition to telling a great story Gruen gives a remarkably detailed picture of the circus world of the 1930s . I had definitely never heard of a cooch tent before reading this book for example and Gruen 's depiction of its solo practitioner is thoughtful humane and free of cliches . The ideas of circuses getting booted out of town of people getting booted off the circus trains and of entrepreneurs cannibalizing the remnants of failed circuses were also quite fascinating.To the extent that Gruen wanted to make an analogy to the biblical Jacob story by obscurely dropped hints and anagrammed names I think however that she pushed too far . This novel stands nicely on its own without this type of symbolism or metaphor . ",3
"Sara Gruen seems like a nice person . But this novel is total dreck . The structure reeks of baloney the different characters are written with the same bland voice and the whole melodramatic mess never rises above laughable soap operatics . I 'd never want to take enjoyment of this kind of thing away from anyone but if you 've not read it I 'm sure there are better books about the circus out there for you . ",0
"I would recommend this book to anyone looking for a fun book that keeps the reader coming back for more . It is an absolute roller coaster of human emotion that develops characters that are identifiable . Gruen 's warts and all approach to character development makes the story fell real and compelling . Excellent well written book ! A must read ! ",4
"Wow ! This book was on my ToRead list for awhile before I got around to it . Somehow I did n't foresee this being about the circus I do n't know why . I read this in 2 days I could n't put it down . I just wanted to know what happened next ! I love the way it was written too . The cruelty of the circus animals brought tears to my eyes more than once . Loved it and will recommend to it my friends for sure ! ",4
"This is definitely a slow starter and the pace picks up only slightly about 23 through . A decent story line but not something I 'd read again . ",2
"Beautifully written with characters that define humanity with their strengths but more so their weaknesses WATER FOR ELEPHANTS is a most touching tale that brings the reader into a completely different and lost world of the travelling circuses during the Great Depression.What makes Sara Gruen 's novel all too unique is her ability to bring us into the lives of her ordinary characters leading such extraordinary existence in the circus world . Amidst the spectacle to provide temporary entertainment lies the cruelty and the debauchery never seen outside the performance area . A grumpy dwarf and his pet an elephant who exhibits exceptional talent and is more human than the people around her a circus star and a wouldbe vet who would have thought that an insight into their lives can so summarize the abandonment of youth and the sadness of old age reviewing an existence that has come to pass ? One of the most worthwhile reads for quite a time this novel is a gem . ",4
"I enjoyed this book . Sometimes I just love wandering through Barnes and Noble and finding a good book to read this book was just that . A story of aging the circus life death loved ones and more it really has it all.It is a fun book that made me feel emotion while reading it good work . I would recommend for sure . JVD ",4
"I loved this book and I especially loved the fact that it did use the true carnival and circus language.You feel for and with the characers and I fully agree with the others that rated this book 5 stars.Read their reviews also they are great ",4
"It starts out a little slow but gets better and I ended up really enjoying the book . I would recommend it as a take along book on vacation . ",3
"After hearing so much hype about this book I quickly read it before the movie came out . I was n't disappointed but I was n't the super excited about it either . I liked the perspective from which the story was told a feisty 90something old man reflecting in flashbacks on his adventures in a travelling circus 70 years earlier while lamenting the indignities of his current nursinghome existence . Jacob Jankowski just days from the final exams at Cornell University becoming a vet had his world forever altered when his parents are killed in an auto accident . Alone frightened and penniless the 23 yr. old hops a train never intending to & # 8220run away with the circus & # 8221 . Harsh conditions at the circus and an insane animal trainer are some of the things Jacob has to contend with living his life with the circus . ",2
"Our Kindle Book Club gave this book 7 out of 10 . I liked the way Gruen brought a life together and illustrated the ways we gain respect and lose respect . The history of the Circus life was based on fact it showed the degree of cruelty toward animals and humans in the desire to make money . There was also a degree of cruelty and lack of respect in the Nursing Home . The love story was nicely developed without becoming the main story . We loved Jacob he was a good man . The ending was brilliant he won ! ",3
"This is the life of Jacob Jankowski starting after the death of his parents his parents who paid for his education by mortgaging their farm and therefore had nothing to leave him.He hops a train to nowhere so he thinksbut it is a circus train and he becomes a 'first of May'that means a newbie . From that time on that is his home his work his life.The story is selfnarrated by Jacob when he is in his ninties and in an 'old folks home ' and he hates every minute of his life there . And so perhaps we can imagine he passes the time by telling us his story.Gruen has circus life down pat due to I am sure many many hours of research and has such a beautiful rhythm to her prose that you are there with Jacob . You feel the exitement smell the animals hear the band music envision the clowns hear the roar of the cats and feel the thumder under your feet as the elephants begin their parade and the laughter and applause of the crowds.Jacob 's life is not easy but it is intriguingly exciting and different . IF only he had taken the last test for his vet licenseif only his parents had not died at that critical moment in his lifeif onlyif onlyI loved this novel because it drew on every one of my emotions and satisfied my hunger for a really good story . I will never forget Jacob ! ",4
"A little slow but an overall great love story . No regrets for reading it . Most people I 've talked to rave about this book . ",3
"I could n't finish the book I was so bored and I HATE leaving books unfinished . I did n't like the crudeness of it either I just do n't see why it was such a hit blah ! ",0
"Here is a delicious journey back to a gritty bygone era of big tops roustabouts circus trains freak shows midways . Many of the extraordinary incidents in this novel according to the author 's notes are rooted in oral history or based on anecdotes or actual written reports of those early 20th century years . Those who rode the circus rails many being family castaways and society 's rejects found family and home in that unique traveling milieu of humanity and managerie and in the process grew tough in body and spirit . BUT even if you do n't give a hoot about circuses or circus people do n't be put off by the title or theme . Although is there really anyone in their 30s plus years who did not as a child sit and watch wideeyed delighting in the cheap glitz the pulsating music the flamboyant and rhinestonestudded costumes and yes the size and smell of the elephants when the circus came to town ? This story is nostalgic in its telling engaging in its characters with a plot that clearly aligns the good guys against the bad . There are wonderful descriptions of authentic circus activity onsite intrigue and a romance that you will really care about . All of this tucked into the ruminations of a contentious 90yearold assistedliving resident whom you will also really care about.I suspect however one would have to have a soft spot for animals to want to open this novel and then to inhale it as I did in just a day and a half . Like savoring a wonderful dessert I was torn between the discipline of consuming it in small ladylike portions and making it last for as long as possible or just gobbling it down and enjoying it all at once . ",4
"I loved this book ! I could n't put it down ! It was a bit fluffier reading than I originally thought it would be but it was fabulous nonetheless . The descriptions are vivid not cliched the characters are interesting and the weaving of presentday Jacob with the Jacob of a bygone era is delightful.I would call this a must read not because it will change your life or make you think about the world around you but because it is just so enjoyable . I gave it a 4.5 because it is n't a book that will make you think long after the last page is read but it will make you sad you 've left the colorful circus world of Jacob Jankowski . ",4
"I really enjoyed this book as did lots of people I leant it to . ",4
"I really did n't like this book very much . In its favor it 's well researched but the crudeness of the characters and animal cruelty turned me off . I 'm sure it 's very accurate in its portrayal of the times I 'd just rather read something uplifting . I read it based on a recommendation from a family member . I on the other hand would not recommend it . ",1
"I had heard of this book for awhile and kept considering it but I hate to say it was n't until I saw the trailer for the movie coming out soon that really caught my attention . So the next day I went out and bought it starting it immediately . The story is extremely well written with details that enabled me to picture how everything appeared in a big top circus during that time . You immediately connect with Jacob from the start as his journey continues pulling for him page after page . The other characters are well written with the story feeling the happiness joy and sadness each of them feel as the story continues.It 's really hard not to say too much without giving the story away . This is a book I will be recommending to everyone as it is a story that has a bit of everything wrapped into one so many emotions page after page . Knowing the fate of most the characters at the end you want more but already have an idea of how their story ends . ",4
"College guy joins a travel by train circus and flips over the beautiful star married to a jealous sadistic husband . The first person point of view makes his crushing on her vivid.The author 's historical research adds fascinating info . She does not hold back on the sex or violence . The characters are outsized good idea for a circus story.This is one of the most entertaining novels I 've ever read . ",4
"I was excited to read this book but I was disappointed in it . Maybe I expected too much because of all the hype and the movie coming about a month after I read it.The premise was great a Cornell educated kid drops out during his exams due the death of his parents and finds himself transported into the world of a circus train during the Great Depression . The story is told sort of as a flashback it goes back and forth between Jacob as a 90 or 93 year old man and Jacob as a 23 yearold college dropout . It sets itself up to be touching moving etc . and it does take you back to a time that 's grand and terrible . But it falls flat . The author could have done so much with Jacob Marlena and August . The brightest spots of the novel are Jacob in old folks home we really get to see his character there . Marlena was beautiful but boring and August was brilliant but crazy . We see several spots where she could have gone deeper with all three characters bur fails to so so.The author telegraphed the ending a mile away but that era was n't about happy endings . That era was about sadness struggling and being down on your luck.The other bright spots of the novel occur when the author describes Rosie the elephant and the ins and outs of the circus and how it works . It is clear she did a lot of research on how the circuses worked and it was nice to be able to picture those details.The book had so much potential . I wish it would have been better . ",1
"A wonderful starcrossed lover story that takes place in the middle of a traveling circus back in the early 1900s . For those that like 'The Notebook ' or 'Eat Pray Love ' I think you would like this one as well . ",4
"You will love this book ! If you love fiction this book is great . I heard the movie shuffles some of the story around . However this is a great read and I could not wait to finish it . ",4
"So this is the dreck that is passing for 'modern literature ' these days ? Honestly after hearing some very good reviews about this books actually the reviews came to me via a coworker who pressed a hand to her stomach frowned and said my daughter and I loved this book I figured I would give it a try.The first sign that this was not going to wind up on my favorite book list was that after an hour or so of reading I realized that I was more than 100 pages in . Normally when I 'm reading I pause occasionally to think reflect sympathize emphasize synthesize etc etc etc . But alas nothing deep and worthy of reflection was to be found . Nothing to stop me reading for a moment to think about what I 'd just read . Not that I was expecting much but I find myself more appreciative of a book story news article movie or television show if it can make me think about at least something more than the words in front of my face . Again not here . There was nothing to be found.Eventually as the story continued and I learned more about Jacob and the circus I ca n't say I was surprised when I found myself not caring one way or the other what was going to happen to him or the rest of the circus bunch there was nothing for me to connect myself to these characters with . If anything the more I read the more impressed I became with the author 's ability to keep me so detached ! In addition to the weak and utterly predictable story I mean who did n't see that August was either bipolar or a schizophrenic that Marlena was going to get pregnant or that Jacob 's family was n't going to show ? the dialogue comes out incredibly thin to the point that I 'm actually thinking that the author has never heard two people speak to one another . The dialogue comes across as forced and for lack of a better term soap operaish . I half expected to hear the dramatic soap opera bumper at the end of each chapter will Jacob get the girl will August find out about their illicit love affair and will Rosie finally learn English ? Tune in next chapter..But I digress . For everything I 've stacked in the negative column about this book there is one redeeming quality and that is the story . I 'm somewhat not ashamed to admit that I literally could n't put this book down . It was like literary candy on a rainy day actually a smoky day here in SoCal . I picked up the book at 8am and set it down again around 10pm having stopped for food news updates etc . Needless to say I was disappointed.Overall a good book for when you require some mindless entertainment like sitting in an airport or on death row.Finally I was not impressed with the authors use of 'authentic circus lingo . ' Apparently she did some research . Well I should hope so ! ",1
"I 'm not going to outline the story I 'm going to point out a few flaws in the book and what I liked to try to help you decide if you should read it for yourself.First the flaws . It really does n't take long to figure out where the story is going . You can see it coming a mile away . Second Ms Gruen is writing the story from a male perspective but she needs a little more practice . Jacob seemed like a mama 's boy but I do n't think that was her intention instead it was her inability to really connect to her male character.Despite these minor flaws I found the story engrossing and from my male perspective I did n't think it ever got into 'romance novel ' territory . So guys it 's safe to read . The trains boozin ' and rough living of a traveling circus in 1931 was very interesting . The way Gruen shifts the novel from the past to Jacob 's current state of living in a nursing home is jarring and makes you feel just like Jacob when he is 90 or 93 you want to get back to the circus . ",3
"It is actually a waste of time and money ! The plot could be very good but filled with sensual and detailed pornographic material it could do without ! ",1
"I enjoyed this book so much I did not want the story to end . Alternately told between the main character as a youth and reminiscing as an old man . This takes you back to a time when the world was a lot simpler if you remember the time when a circus would show up in your small town and just as quickly disappear . The end is a gem wo n't spoil it for those who have not read it . I could n't put it down just pure entertainment . ",4
"Have you ever asked yourself these questions ? What is a life worth ? How do you judge if someone is worth saving ? What does it mean to be human ? What distinguishes an animal from a human being ? Hidden beneath this easytoread though dark comingofage romance is a theme that prompts the reader to ask the above questions . The answer come through the reminiscing of protagonist Jacob Jankowskia man at the end of his fascinating life . The story begins with the circus rolling into town triggering a flood of Jankowski 's memories full of pleasure joy love hate regret & guilt . Sara Gruen brings the quaint circus existence of the mid 20th century to life through meticulous research and wonderful storytelling . Anyone who ever dreamed of running away to the big top or just dreamed of running away should read this book . ",4
"This novel is riveting from start to finish . What really surprised me is how well written it is . Water For Elephants is a great book for your book club or for a quiet night reading in bed . ",3
"I purchased this book to read before I saw the movie . Actually never finished it and went to the moviewhich was excellent.Overall transaction to acquire this book was fantastic . ",4
"Well written . Gave additional insight to the living conditions in the early days of the circus . Looking forward to seeing the movie . The book should make a great screen play . ",3
"What a wonderful story of a ragtag bunch of people and animals who just happened to be called a circus ! They traveled by train during the depression and had some fascinating adventures along the way . We meet Jacob Jankowski a young man who accidently lands on the train . He decides to stay and become the circus veterinarian . He meets lovely Marlena and her evil husband August . Of course he falls in love with her but the husband is a force to be reckoned with . There is also Walter Kinkothe clown Big Al Camel and of course Rosie the Elephant . The ending is extremely satisfying . This book is wellresearched and authentic . I loved it ! ",4
"It was a pretty good story . Not my usual cup of tea but ok . I would recommend to you very interesting ",3
"This is one of those books that stays with you long after reading it . I saw the movie too but it was the book that held me in its grip . This book is hard to put down . It is so well written that you really feel you are inside the story . It takes you there . And it takes you there FAR better than the movie ever could . I will read it again someday . That is a rare statement from me . ",4
"Did n't expect to enjoy this as much as I did . Really fascinating characters that had me very absorbed.Excellent story with many unexpected twists & turns . Definitely worthwhile.An ending that will surprise . ",3
"Very well written . Interesting comparison between a youth & himself as an old man and between characters with compassion and some with none . ",4
"A family disaster sends a first generation PolishAmerican almostveterinarian down an alternate precarious path one filled with among other things murder mayhem mental illness a menagerie and an intriguing woman names Marlena . After the teaser of a prologue during which a murder takes place the story shifts to realtime in the life of ninety or ninetythree year old nursing home resident Jacob Jakowski as he realizes that a circus has rolled up mere blocks away . He is resigned to suffering through several standard days of monotony wakefulness alternating with bouts of nighttime and inadvertent memoryfilled dozing as he anticipates viewing the upcoming circus performance . Although his brain founders his wit and wisdomfilled thoughts and words are spot on of memory You start to forget words they 're on the tip of your tongue but instead of eventually dislodging they stay there forced to take an antidepressant You want to drug me . You want to turn me into a JellO eating sheep on nursing home life I 'm so used to being scolded and herded and managed and handled that I 'm no longer sure how to react when someone treats me like a real person and after explaining his inability to keep track of his grandchildren and greatgrandchildren My brain is like a universe whose gases get thinner and thinner at the edges . The story of his circusrelated escapades is equally good . Although the ending seems more contrived than likely and the plot contains a fair amount of sexual situations violence and animal cruelty its uniqueness as well as several factbased plot parts overshadow its few faults . Good books with similar themes Life of Pi by Yann Martel The True History of the Elephant Man by Peter Ford and Michael Howells and All Creatures Great and Small by James Herriot . ",3
"Well I think the sign of a good book is when you put it down and you are still thinking about the characters or the storyline because you ca n't get them out of your head . That was definitely true of this book ! I had heard and read a lot about Water for Elephants which actually put me off reading it as It meant my expectations were sky high and I was n't sure if the book would be able to live up to them . But let me tell you that it certainly did.I was a little apprehensive about how it started with Jacob in his golden years reflecting on his youth but in the end I found this was actually one of the things I enjoyed about how the book was written . Like Jacob I longed for the times when his mind slipped back to his younger years when his body was whole and his mind sharp when his passions ran high and his life was full of adventure . I could relate to his frustration with his age mental status and physically limitations.The story of his life was emotional and felt very real . The ending was surprisingly satisfying for the reader and Jacob possibly because Jacob received what we all hope for at the end of a long life . I 'm not going to say anymore than that as i dont want to give anything away so if you want to know more you will have to read it yourself . I hope you enjoy this book as much as I did . ",4
"This is a good book about the circus a comment I never thought I would ever make . Jacob 's story is heartbreakingly sympathetic . Ms. Gruen 's mastery of the circus vocabulary really sets the stage for the plotline . A remarkable amount of reseach went into writing circus lore . This is no Barnum and Bailey 's Greatest Show on Earth . This is a downtrodden edging ever closer to disaster circus run by the same type of people . I must admit I had to skip anything that resembled animal cruelty although I am sure it is factual . My inability to deal with this led to my giving the book only 4 stars . A reflection on the reviewer more than on the book . ",3
"It took me a long long time to get into this book . I kept picking it up reading a few pages and then putting it down again . It was n't terrible but it did n't really grab me until well after the 100 page mark . Nevertheless I did enjoy it and I 'm glad I stuck with it.The book jumps backwards and forwards in time from Jacob 's life as a vet in a 1930s circus to his life today as a 93 year old in an old folk 's home . Not much happens in the present day chapters and for a while I wondered what they were adding to the book but the pay off at the end is very satisfying . While I do n't know a lot about circuses in the depression era my impression was that the book is well researched and certainly it brings that world very vividly to life . The book is peppered with sepia toned photographs from that era which is a clever touch.Overall a good book and one that is worth sticking with . I was caught up in the central romance and I very much enjoyed the character that is the elephant Rosie . ",3
"This was a delightful summer read . Everything about this book was good . You could really identify and feel passionate good or bad about the characters including the animals . All the loose ends are wrapped up . It makes me feel nostalgic and she has a way of transporting you back in time without being too wordy . The book is well written and entertaining . This was pretty much the best book I read all summer . I even cried a little at the end . I really hope they make this book into a movie . It would be such a great movie if it was done correctley . Everyone should read this book . ",4
"I fell in love with Jacob Jankowski even if he is 90. or 93 ! I ordered this book through my online bookclub Audible and am so glad I did.The cover of the book interested me and I had almost bought the book to read but thought . naw I am really not into the whole circus thing . Besides I am more of a NonFiction kinda gal lately.Then a few days later this book was listed on Audible as one of their bestsellers so I gave it a try and immediately fell in love with the narration of old man Jacob . The story drew me in and I could n't stop listening to it even after we had all gone to bed I was up past 2am last night listening to it trying to control my laughter at the really laugh out loud parts to keep from waking my husband.Now to me that is a really great read so I thought I would pass along a little note saying how much I enjoyed Water for Elephants A Novel and to say thanks to Sara Gruen for writing it ! I enjoyed the Awesome Narration also by David LeDoux and John Randolph Jones that really added to the enjoyment of this novel ! ! ! ",4
"The story is well written fun to read and has an unexpected ending . Although a bit gruesome in places it was great fun to read . ",4
"This book was amazing . The pace is almost like the circus train itself it starts chugging forward slowly and then before you know it you 're flying so fast you can barely keep your balance ! Gruen 's writing is so evocative you feel like you are on that train and in those tents . You taste the food smell the smells hear the sounds feel the animals and the movement of the train . It 's amazing that she could write so vividly about an era in history with which she had no prior knowledge before writing the book.The only thing I did n't like about it were the scenes involving animal cruelty . I knew they would be there given the subject matter but it was still difficult . However I give Gruen credit for not making them gratuitous . They were important to developing the story line and the characters.All in all a great ride ! ",3
"Had a lot of fun reading this and I fell in love with the characters . I want an elephant for a pet and to visit nursing homes . ",3
"Waited awhile to read this book and a friend recommended it to meso I thoughtwhy not ? I loved the story of the circus and felt like I could picture everything . It was a very easy read and found myself wanting to have more time to enjoy it Now what are YOU waiting for ? ",3
"Story did n't blow me away althought I finished it with no problems . I would recommend this book as a light summer read . Nothing more profound about the story . ",2
"The title of my review pretty much says it all . This was a very easy enjoyable read full of characters you ca n't help but love and love to hate . There were some inconsistencies in details but most of them would sail right past the average person and were n't a big deal to me.It is almost always hard for me to initially get into a book I do n't know why but it is . This book was different it had my rapt attention from start to finish though the end was disappointing to me . After chapters of such a great story I found the almost ridiculous improbability of the ending to be quite out of place . I also could have happily lived without the animal abuse and the unnecessary deaths of Walter & Camel but the ending sat particularly poorly with me . In addition the final chapter seemed to bring the previously well paced story to a very abrupt halt that felt all wrong . I enjoyed the rest of the book however and feel it 's well worth the read . ",3
"Books are always better than the movie and that 's true for this one . The choking scene in the movie upset me greatly having been a victim of domestic violence so I was glad it was not in the book it was referred to but a pulling of her necklace rather than the fullon twohands choking scene of the movie . Love this one as well as Gruen 's other books . ",4
"When my friend first mentioned I should read this book I hesitated because of the subject of animal abuse . But I did read it and from the beginning was drawn in by the old man as he begins to tell his story . The story is so deeply sentimental and vivid in descriptives . The characters are unforgettable and this includes the animals . Yes it was painfully sad and I was angered when the abuse was occurring but still I read on . I must say this book made a big impression upon me as far as a story of adventure travel history and love all rolled into one . When I had my first book read for my debut novel on Friday June 13th 2008 the store manager who took a chance on an unknown selfpublished author predicted that my book like Water for Elephants would have the same impact in time . She had said that Sar Gruen at first could n't get the attention her book deserved but on went life to where WFE ended up being one of the most interesting accounts of US circus story ever told . Although I saw no comparison with WFE and my novel The Skye in June I welcome her prediction and await the results . But ! Buy WFE and like me keep it in your library to reread in the years to come . ",4
"Wow ! Water for Elephants was recommended by a friend of mine . She loved the book so much she bought it for me . I am happy she did ! ! This story was heartfelt mind blowing awesomely good ! ! ! ! ! ! Sara definitely has a masterpiece on her hands . Jacob and Marlena ' s life Rosie all the crew and other animals . What they went through and how they end up . I loved and cried . Camel and Walter so sad . Water for Elephants is A must read ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ",4
"This is one of the worst books I have ever read . I have to admit I did not finish it . It was simultaneously boring cliched badly written and trite . Oh and repetitive . The only redeeming feature of the book was the parts where Jacob was an old man . If the author could write like that more consistently then she would be on to something . I can not figure out why people love this book so much . If you compare it to another recently very popular book The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo at least that book was riveting even though it was also not very well written . I am not looking for Faulkner but if a book is not high literature it should at least have a compelling plot . This book had neither neither good writing style nor an interesting plot . Do n't waste your time . ",0
"I truly enjoyed this book except for the parts detailing animal abuse but I 'm very squeamish . WFE is a wonderful book and I definately recommend it to everyone . ",3
"It honestly took me weeks to finally talk myself into buying this book I just said screw it and did it . I started reading it and could not put it down . By far my favorite book . this month anyhow I love to read the books before I see the movie and even though 9 out of 10 times I am very disapointed with the movie I honestly can not wait to see this movie ! I think that the book was so real and made me feel like part of the circus so much that watching the movie will make me feel even more so part of the circus . I passed this book along to a reading buddy of mine and told her just read it ! She text me the next day and said she had just finished it and it was SOOOOOO GOOD This girl in not one to read a book in a day If you are reading these reviews trying to descide weather to buy this or not by suggestion is . Just buy it ! Well worth the money ! ",4
"I read this book at the recommendation of a clientI loved it ! I read this book quite some time ago about two years ago and still think about some of the characters . While reading this book I often found myself so deep in the story I could smell the smells and hear all of the people talking . I want to see the movie as I am sure it will be entertaining my only concern outside of the obvious if you read a lot you will agree it is a rare movie that can compare to the book . I so enjoyed this book and I would be disappointed if the characters were not portrayed as beautifully on the big screen as I have them in my mind . I would highly recommend this book to anyone looking for a beautifully written story that is sure to stay with you long after the final page . ",4
"my father read the book first He then talked my mother into reading this book who then talked me into reading this book we all came away from the book with loving different parts of the book If your looking for a great book to read and have not read this book I will try to talk you into reading this book.Its a great book for all ages . ",4
"It appears as though I 'm in the minority once again . All of us are entitled to our own thoughts and opinions but for the life of me I ca n't understand the number of 5 star ratings given to this book . I 'm not even sure I feel good about giving it a two.I wanted to like the book . Really . Who does n't love a cute little old man telling his story of the good ol ' days ? But as endearing as the concept was I could n't get past the fact that I honestly did n't care that much about any of the characters . Sorry but it had to be said . The characters were flat the story was more fantasy than fiction and worst of all the whole thing felt quite familiar . It was only later that it occured to me that this story was trying very hard to be Fried Green Tomatoes andor Driving Miss Daisy the difference is that I actually cared about the characters in those stories . Frankly Water for Elephants read more like a screenplay than a great novel.For my friends I would suggestIf you want a story of reflection The Green Mile Driving Miss Daisy Fried Green TomatoesIf you want a story about elephants Hannah 's DreamIf you want a story about a circus well I 've got no idea . Having said all of that I would like to see the movie . As stated before this read like a screenplay bare bones generally just waiting for someone to bring life to the characters and story . ",1
"The wife and I started reading this book after seeing the movie and were not disappointed . Kept our interest all the way through . Recommend to anyone over the age of 13 some mature subject matter . Loved the characters especially Rosie . Bound to be a classic . Worth buying the audio book too ! ",3
"When I first started hearing the buzz about this book I politely declined offers to buddy read and group discuss . I 've never been attracted to all that goes on under the big top and if I did n't want to attend a circus then why would I want to read about one ? The book had the added downfall of an elephant as a main character and while I love animals I generally do n't like to read about them . I thought this book had nothing to offer me . . . and I was very wrong.Reliving his young years right along with 90 year old Jacob Jankowski was a beautiful journey . I normally do n't care for the sentimentality inherent in an old narrator looking back on his young days but I found Water for Elephants did n't use cheap tricks to manipulate the reader 's feelings . Instead it had a slow build and satisfying finish marks of a novel well written . As the old man Jacob tells his story I began to feel all the emotions that he did . By the end I was fully invested.Gruen brings to life the Depression era geeks and freaks of the circus with generous but not overdone descriptions . I became so engrossed in that world that it was jarring to come back to reality when I closed the book . The love triangle between man woman and beast was a beautiful thing and the ending for me came far too soon.I highly recommend Water for Elephants for 16+ and for anyone who enjoys a beautiful love story and being transported to a different day and age . ",3
"I really liked reading about the history of the circus . I loved the images and Sara Gruen knew how to vividly describe something . It 's definitely worth reading . ",3
"I loved this book . It was sometimes hard to read when Rosie the elephant was being beaten for example but overall it was so incredibly good . One point that bothered me though . WHY did the author NOT have Jacob turn back and look for Walter ? ? ? Just because the other men said he probably did not survive the night does not mean he did n't . At very least Jacob SHOULD have gone back and found out for sure especially since Walter had done a lot of good for him . That was the only part of the book I felt let down by although I still loved the book . ",4
"This book was so wonderful and so interesting that you ca n't put it down ! I read it in less than a day and even forgot to eat because I just could n't stop reading because I wanted to see what happened next . It is a must read ! ! ! ",4
"Easy to follow with strong philosophical and social belief shown . Will be using examples from book to help my students to the common core . ",4
"I dont need to go into too much detail as most of the reviews here have covered the plot . I downloaded this on my kindle app during a horrendous layover at the airport and it was nice read that kept my interest . For some reason this book reminds me of Mitch Albom in the style it was written and the flashbacks . Looking forward to the movie as I had envisioned the main character Marlena to look very similar to Reese Witherspoon during my read . Pictures kept the chapters interesting as well . ",3
"I loved this book . It 's about an lonely old man in a nursing home who 's memories are sparked with the circus comes to town . He remembers back to his youth when he left veterinary school because of his parent 's tragic deaths and joined the traveling circus . He details his unique experiences in the traveling show and of all the colorful people he became friends and enemies with . As mentioned in the title there is an elephant but the story is really about a young man 's experiences as he struggles and learns his place in the hierarchy of circus and in life . Highly recommended ! ",4
"I found this book interesting because of the research Ms. Gruen obviously did on train circuses and depressionera life . I also thought her passages detailing the life of Jake as an old man were the best written things in the book . Since Ms. Gruen is a woman who appears from her author 's photo to be barely middleaged I have to assume that some research went into finding out about the lives of elderly men as well because she writes these passages with a clear and utterly believable voice that truly resonates.Unfortunately nothing else in the book resonates nearly as much and there 's a lot lacking here . The young version of Jake never takes off as a character nor does his entirely manufactured love story with a circus bareback rider . We know from the moment he sees Marlena that she 'll obviously be his love interest but their relationship never actually develops before they 're suddenly declaring love for one another and hitting the sack.Ms . Gruen also fails in her execution of believable villains . Her two main villains are August a brutal horse trainer who abuses or neglects all of the animals and Uncle Al the cruel circus boss but their villainy never really jumps off the page . For some reason she chose to make her main antagonist August Jewish . I still do n't understand the reasoning behind that nor do I understand her choice to call him a paranoid schizophrenic as well . Oh and for good measure he 's also a wife beater . He 's simply too many things rolled into one . Perhaps if she 'd concentrated on one aspect of his brutality she could have made him more believable . And unfortunately since his religion really has nothing else to do with him as a character it 's hard not to simply label Ms. Gruen as antisemitic . Perhaps if she 'd actually used the show do n't tell philosophy and let us SEE what Uncle Al was doing instead of just hearing about everything second hand from other characters he would n't have seemed so twodimensional . As it is I never bought these guys as the towering pillars of pure evil they were obviously supposed to be.I also never bought Jake at least not as a young man . One minute he 's making a vow to himself that he 'll stay with the animals so they wo n't be hurt because that 's what his dead father would want him to do . Yet he stands by not once but TWICE and allows August to savagely beat an elephant with a hook . It 's hard to respect a character like that . Jake rarely takes any real action he mostly just stands by while things happen TO him or happen around him.I also felt the book could have benefited from a diagram . In books that take place on ships there 's usually a sketch in the front of the book with all the parts labeled for readers to refer back to so they can understand the action . I had a lot of trouble visualizing the train where a good 40 % of the crucial action takes place in this book and that was a major barrier to getting into the story . Had there been a sketch of it up front with all the sections labeled those sections of the story would have been much easier to understand.Overall I am giving this book three stars because of the research the informative author 's note at the end and the sections with Jake as an old man . I also really got a kick out of the ending . But on the whole I would recommend this as a library book or a used book store book definitely NOT one you pay full price for . ",2
"I judge a book by how compelling it is . To me this was a great read . I could n't put it down . I thought the movie was disappointing in comparison . ",4
"I thoroughly enjoyed this book . I felt like I was right there with the characters as I read . Could n't wait to see what would happen next . There were many twists and turns to the story that I did n't expect and the ending was a suprise ! Thought I had it figured out but not so . Do n't hesitate to pick up this one . ",4
"This is a great book to get lost in . The characters are well developed and you can see the story the author is tells about life during the great depression working in a circus . It 's about people who are down on their luck that come together to help others and the animals . It 's one of those rare books when your lucky enough to find one that 's hard to put down . Great fiction with a historical basis that lends credibility . ",4
"I purchased this book because it received great reviews from readers on amazon.com . Truthfully I was disappointed because I found the book rather dull . There was very little action in the novel and I did not emphathize with any of the characters other than Jankowski in his 90s in the assisted living facility . The insight provided into the circus world of the Great Depression was interesting but overall I would not recommend the book . ",1
"It was hard to put this one down . Very easy to follow . I laughed a little and cried a little . ",4
"This book intrigued me because it is not something I 'd normally be interested in reading . I was expecting to be movedas so many reviewers had indicated . Instead I was only moved to flip the pages as quickly as possible to at least come to the surprise ending that was indicated in some reviews.The premise the whole idea of a story set in a circus backdrop during the Depression was fantastic . The story itself in my opinion failed . It failed for several reasons . The characters appeared to be no more than pawns for moving the story forwardthey never made it beyond the cardboard cliche stage . Even Jacob whose latter years were more endearing to read was always seen from afar . We never really got in his head at all . He was totally unbelievable . Kid drops out of vet school and joins the circus and acts like a thirteen year old with thirteen year old dialogue.Which brings me to the dialogue in this book . Horrible ! I caught myself laughing out loud in disbelief at the cheezy sentences . And at one point I thought if I read uh or um one more time I was going to scream and toss the book in the trash.All that aside if it was meant to be just a gaudy quick genretype read then it was n't marketed that way . No one ever rose above the surface level and I simply did n't buy itthe narrator the girl the speech during that era.The ending well it was okay . It meshed with the rest of the book.And Jacob he seemed terribly stupid and sophomoric to be a lifetime vet who 'd attended Cornell etc . He was also grouchy and not likable except when he finally got real about himself growing old . In fact I came across this passage in ch . 16 my brain is like a universe whose gases get thinner and thinner at the edges I thought YES ! ! This is what the story is really about a man who once had keen senses and awareness and traveled with a circus of all things has come to the end of the show and he is facing it and fearing it simultaneously . That was the story Gruen could 've warmed my heart with instead of the basic shallow ridiculous story in Water for Elephants . ",1
"I feel so lucky . I read A Thousand Splendid Suns and now this ! And I do n't know which I liked more.There were a few holes in the storyline but that 's easily forgiven with her wonderful insight and delightful way with words.The present day Jacob gave me a good laugh . The latter day Jacob made me sad.A book I will recommend to many . ",4
"Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen is a compelling read that is fastpaced and difficult to put down . At times the plot ran so quickly I found myself trying to search for a way to slow down the course of the story but to no avail . The quick pace however does seem to fit and reaches a broader audience that seems to want rapid conclusion and catharsis . Reversions to the present time are a nice break from circus life and I believe are Gruen 's most vivid and compelling depictions of the novel . Her illustration of life at the nursing home and perspective of the ` patients ' which Jacob catches a nurse stating when the correct political term is ` residents ' provides an accurate and refreshing look at assisted elderly homes . The circus lifestyle is portrayed truthfully but is often overshadowed by the dynamics and major plotline concerned with the Romantic relationship and triangle of Jacob August and Marlena.Gruen 's Water for Elephants is an easy read with relatively simple themes and motifs to comprehend including animal cruelty abusive relationships circus life in the 30 's life during the Great Depression coming of age and older ageaging . It truly encapsulates a broad range of topics but the overlaying plot and issues are prevalent and riveting if a bit rushed . ",3
"Loved this book from start to finish ! One of the best books I have read in quite some time ! ",4
"The first book I 've read on my kindle . Loved it could n't put it down . Definitely putting itbon my reread list ! ",4
"I 've been done reading this book for weeks now and I still ca n't stop thinking about it . What a great find . ",4
"I loved this book and never wanted it to end . I 've read it several times and each time I have enjoyed it even more.If you like a great book with adventure this is the one for you . It was absolutely amazing . Never a dull moment . ",4
"I 'd probably never have picked up this book on my own but it was chosen by a book club I 've been coerced into joining . It was an enjoyable book and very quick to read . It 's the story of a young man who accidently joins a mangy circus during the depression following a personal tragedy and grows up in the process . The background of the circus particularly at this time in recent history was vivid and fascinating and it would be worth reading the book for that alone . ",3
"The story was captivating . I never lost interest and could hardly put it down . Although I never had any real interest in circus life or the shows in general I had been told it was an interesting book . I found the story one to draw you right into the action and drama as it unfolded and the ending was just perfect . When you finish the book it is with a smile and a good feeling . ",4
"Sara Gruen kept me reading . Her circus research paid off . The characters and the circus life were credible . What was not credible for me was the ending . Idealistic yes but not credible ! I also thought Gruen jammed a lot of information into the last couple of chapters . I would have liked the storyline in the last few chapters to have been developed more in the previous chapters . The ending was disappointing for me . ",3
"The best contemporary novel I have read in a long time . The book was obviously well researched the characters believable and the setting was intriguing . I had this book a while before deciding to read itand I 'm glad I finally delved in . I wish Tobey Maguire were in the movie as Jacob . I can see him clearly in my minds eye.Oh well . That 's why books are better than movies lol . You can cast whomever you want in the starring roles . ",4
"This fascinating story held my interest throughout . I did not want to put the book down and I did not want it to end . At the same time I learned about working and living on the road with a circus and how it was that people survived in rural America during the depression era . This was a truly remarkable human story that will be of interest to anyone but especially to those who are interested in knowing more about those years in the US . ",4
"This book was a great read from beginning to end . It 's hard to believe it was a novel as the history of the old circus life seemed all to real.. it will make you wonder why anyone would have ever said I 'm going to run away and join the circus . A must read.The ",4
"This sat in my closet for a few years and I finally pulled it out . LOVE ! ! ! ! ! ! ! I 'm hoping my momtakes my advice and reads it herself ",4
"wonderful story really enjoyed it never looked at the circus the same way . very heart wrenchingand touching from the perspective of an outsider . ",4
"This is about a young man lost a down time of now family no work but finds a Circus and gets on by watering the elephants Not fitting in but still clinging on . Fell in love with someone he could not have finally wins the love but looses frightening friendship with the crazy Ringmaster and manager of the Circus . We go through the hard times of the circus money not knowing what comes next and everyone is Leary of everyone . At the End he learns he had a great life even as strange as it was . It was a good story about the hard time in that timeline and period . ",3
"Loved it . Had me hooked right from the beginning . I 'm not much of a circus person but after reading this book it made me look up more books about that era of the circus life . I would highly recommend this book . ",4
"This book was a fun read . There was a real twist at the end ! Loved it ! ",4
"This book was nothing short of amazing . From the first page to the last I did not want to put it down and when it ended I was sad it was over . One of the things that makes the book so strong is the characters . from Jacob to August to Rosie there is n't a character that I did not feel moved by at one point or another.There is a dark side to the circus life and this book will show you things you never imagined that happen outside the Big Top . So if you are going to buy one book this year make it this one . ",4
"Although this is a work of fiction author Sara Gruen did extensive research into the circus world during the Depression years . She weaves some reallife incidents into the story of Jacob Jankowski a beloved only son who is well on his way to becoming a veterinarian . Shortly before he is due to graduate his parents are killed in a car accident and he is left penniless . He accidentally climbs on a circus train and his fate is then sealed . Despite the fact that he has not finished his veterinary training he is taken on as a circus vet . The story is told by Jacob when he is 90 or 93 he ca n't remember which and is waiting for his family to come and take him to the cicus . The book is interesting and creative and is a very good read . ",3
"This story is a great picture of how our memories affect our present . Jacob 's story from 70 years ago informs his present and brings us along for the ride . The writing is beautiful and his memories are as real to us as they are to him . The message of loyalty and love shine through and the details ring true because of the thorough research . Read it before seeing the movie which looks good too . ",3
"This book is like no other I 've ever read . The setting main characters and plot are very interesting letting you in on a lifestyle that most people would never get to experience . I was totally intrigued from the very first page ! A good book and very different . I highly recommend it ! ",4
"I am not quite sure how to rate this book . It was a book club pick or I probably would not have read it . I picked it up and put it down countless times before I could actually finish it . I just could not get past the animal cruelty scenes . Plus I am probably one of a minority of people that do not believe animals are here for our entertainment . The fact that they were and still are I am sure in many third rate circusestraveling zoos mistreated makes it all the more heartbreaking for me . I had to give the book stars for the scenes involving Jacob in his old age and also for making you care about the characters . I cried over Walter 's fate . The author also took pity on me and at least made me think some of the animals received a better fate and future . I keeping thinking about Rex though.. ",2
"Fantastic story it had me from beginning to end . Quite brutal in places . After reading this book I had to watch the movie which does not quite do it justice ! ",4
"This was a wonderful story of how life is on the traveling circus and how lives were intertwined . The characters were great and easy to get into . I could not put it down . ",4
"For the past few months I seem to have only been reading thought provoking books . Some were illuminating some were disturbing some made me think about some of my most deeply held beliefs . All in all I am very glad I read these books but as I started into Water for Elephants I realized that it had been quite a while since I read a book mainly to find out what happens at the end.My dad recommended this book and I 'm glad he did . It 's a wonderful story . We experience along with the main character Jacob two parts of his life . We travel through the Great Depression with him after he runs away and joins the circus ! and we also see his current life as a patientresident of an assisted living center . Both times of his life were interesting to me . I know next to nothing about circuses yet I could almost smell the sawdust and hear the music as I made my way through this tale.Gruen has filled her story with the colorful characters one would expect from a circus troupe . Beautiful acrobats tortured clowns animals with personalities almost as big as their trainers and sometimes bigger ! . The details are excellently woven in letting the reader see just enough without blocking one 's imagination . As the story builds towards the climax I found myself doubting the ending I had been sure would take place . Gruen creates just enough tension and suspense to keep the reader turning the pages at a brisk pace.I enjoyed too the scenes of Jacob in the present day . All circus aspects aside the book has some excellent insight into a man who feels as if he has outlived his lifewithout becoming a man who was finished with living . His fears of losing his memories and mind the despair he feels at the sameness of each day and the appreciation he has for the few delights left in his day to day existence are beautifully crafted . He may come across as a crotchety old man at times but the reader and a few characters whose eyes still see a man instead of an old man know that not to be true.Water for Elephants was a very enjoyable story . It was an interesting and fun book well researched and wellwritten . While I did n't take many notes while reading it was not for lack of content but because I did n't want to miss a minute of the story . ",3
"Ok I guess I should start off by saying this review contains SPOILERS ! I always like to warn people just in case but in this situation I really do n't think it 's necessary becuase the very first chapter sort of ruins the polt anyways . In the very first chapter we are given a flash back to all the actual drama of the book and we are told that in the middle of a stampede in the menagerie of a circus rosie the elephant kills her trainer August . This did grab my attention and get me into the book . But as I went along I realized I think they gave away all the good stuff in the first couple pages ! I would much rather have not known that this incident was going to happen so early on ! Because really this is the major turning point of the book . THE event the whole story is leading up to . So really there are no real surprises here.However with that being said I must admit that the story is very beautifully written and does a great job of creating to amazing beautiful mental pictures as you go . It will make a very visually appealing movie . And I liked the scenes in the nursing home where we really get to know Jacob the main charater . And I loved the bond created bewteen all the circus people and the animals throughout the story . I just felt that since they told the ending right away they took all the mystery and suspense out of the book . And on a final note the very very ending was cute in some ways but it was incredibly unbelieveable and kinda silly . I wo n't ruin this for you by spilling the beans I 'll let you get a little surprise with this ending part ",2
"I was practically forced to read this book by my partner who loved it and would not stop insisting that I had to read it . I offered lots of excuses as I put it off but the truth is I could n't care less about the circus . When I finally gave in and started reading Water for Elephants I realized on the first page that my apathy for the circus did n't matter.This was a touching clever totally unexpected story . It offers a window into how we treat the elderly animals and people of a different class without ever being preachy . There were times when I feared it would become a depressing wallow but that never happened . The unexpected upswing at the end was particularly satisfying . A great read . ",3
"This book has it alldevastation adventure friendship humor romance plus it 's beautifully written with a wonderful ending to boot what 's not to love ! Jacob is extremely naive and young in his life from a nice home with loving parents and a successful career in plain sight what he learns on the train is a real jolt into the life of a nomad and as a reader you get to experience his growth into a man . One women in my book club felt it was a tad graphic and even though I agree to a point I felt it was necessary for us to see Jacob experience a world of unspoken truths . The life on a circus train exposes him to situations that he definitely would n't have seen as a neighborhood vet including sex alcoholism prostitution starvation survival This is written from Jacob 's perspective a boy who 's been snatched from a life of predictable comforts and is thrown into a nomadic life aboard a virtually lifethreatening train to nowhere of course it 's going to be a bit graphic and detail emphasized ! This book really transports you into an era long past and I could feel and smell the circus . It also makes you want to run to the nearest retirement home and volunteer . The characters were very well developed and believable as were the animals . I did n't turn the last page with any disappointment the story was complete and satisfying no open endings no need for a sequel . Excellent one I will read again . The movie did n't hold a candle to the book . ",4
"I have read the author 's other books and this has been my favorite . I love all of the history . Very easy and enjoyable read . ",4
"What a fun story cleverly delivered as Jacob moves back in time to relive his story and returns to the present his disgruntled present . Some critics have complained about the ending but I 'd have to say they are Bah humbug critics . The ending is delightful one of the best ever . This is a feel good story and it IS fiction so the complainers IMO just do n't understand Suspended disbelief . The story is magical in its authentic setting and making you feel you are under the big top . It is sometimes shocking sometimes painful always compelling . Do n't miss this one . Karleene Morrow author of Destinies a novel . ",4
"While certainly Water for Elephants includes the harsh reality of what circus life was like during the depression I found it more of a story of hope love and survival . How desperation drives people to do tragic things to one another yet just when you think all is lost a surprising hero can save the day.As with any good story the author must offer conflict and contrast and as much as animal cruelty existed in the story so did an intense love for animals that some of the characters had . In many ways this story was one of good vs. evil set in the unusual backdrop of the circus train.This is one of my new favorites . I read it twice about a year apart and I enjoyed it as much the second time . ",4
"I was surprised on how much I liked this book . Once I started I could not put it down . Loved the story from the lead male characters perspective . The detail was so good I could envision the Circus environment like I was there . The story was both sad and funny and had several good supporting characters . I can definately see Reese Witherspoon in the movie as the female lead . Great Reading ! ! ",4
"This book has been hyped up by many of my friends . I was excited when the price was lower because I wanted to read it . It took me weeks to finish because I was n't interested . There was too much jump from one time period to another . I understand the Author 's purpose but I was truly disappointed . ",1
"I am picky . If I am not drawn in by the first few pages I stop reading . I lean towards a combination of mystery murder and love and this book though much different from my normal reads kept me completely enthralled . I would highly recommend ! ",3
"I was n't sure that I would like this book but I felt the need to read it as always before I saw the movie . Wow . I really liked this book ! And even though it 's been weeks since I 've read it the story stills resonates and I still hate some of the characters and love some others . Very well written and well paced story . ",4
"First the good1 . This is a fastpaced easy read . It 's easy to become engrossed in the description of circus life during the Depression era . It kept me reading and kept me interested.However1 . There were so many characters that are suddenly mentioned without any introduction . This happens especially when Jacob joins the circus . I almost gave up trying to sort out who all these people were and believe it or not a lot of them were n't mentioned more than a few times . Still it was jarring trying to figure out who was important and who wasn't.2 . As soon as Jacob sees Marlena the beautiful equestrian performer we know that they are going to be romantically involved . But when their romance does take off there 's no real build up . I did n't find myself caring about their romance because it was n't something they fought for they just happened to fall into bed together one day . Woohoo.3 . Jacob at 23 has these epiphanies once in awhile about how he loves and wants to protect the animals at the circus because his father would have wanted him to and blah blah blah . But he simply does n't . I found it difficult to care about him when he does n't do anything to protect the animals he claims to care for.Overall I enjoyed this book . There were some things that could definitely have been improved upon but overall it was an interesting and intriguing world to be pulled into . ",3
"I love this book because the characters are engaging and unique the settings both mundane and fantastical and the ending perfect ! I want to be Jacob J. when I get older . Thank you for a marvelous book . ",4
"I just ca n't get past chapter 5 . I bought this based on all the reviews . Sadly I must move on . I alsways feel guilty for not finishing a book . Even time at the beach did not help . ",1
"A man in a nursing home relives his younger years as a vet for a circus . To this reader not a very compelling premise yet once I read the first paragraph I was instantly hooked . By the second chapter I had grown so attached to the main character that I truly felt for the things that happened to him . The story is told in rich vivid prose capturing each character so well that they soon became my friends and enemies depending on the character . This book addresses a wide range of human experiences in a tasteful manner in which this reader was left in a pensive awestruck mood contemplating far more important questions and ideas about human existence . It also needs to be noted that this book is extremely well researched and bases its story around actual happenings in Circus history . ",3
"Great storyline and colorful description . Just loved it . Found myself caring about the characters early on . Enjoyed the historical photographs and the detail about circus life in the 1930s fascinating . ",3
"A good read and most enjoyable . The humor in this book about nursing homes is right on the mark . The characters are believable and likeable . The story line is good and romantic . The ending is open for discussionbut good . ",4
"Thank god for a happy ending the entire book depressed me the human and animal cruelty the redlightings the drinking of Sterno ! ? the depiction of the folks in the Assisted Living facility sounded more like a nursing home than ALs I know . I read it in a day and a half just to get through it for book club but I would n't have finished it otherwise . and I finish virtually every book I start . ",2
"This is the best book I 've read in a very long time . I ca n't stop thinking about it . The characters are so real so colorful . I am in love . ",4
"Great book I like the way the story moved between the character as an old man and his younger days in the circus . However the formatting in this book is so screwy I 'd often have to reread sentences so I could work out what they were saying and that really pulled me out of the story . There were multiple instances of missing spaces between words and paragraph breaks in the middle of a sentence . Did the publisher even have someone proofread the ebook version ? ",3
"After reading the book I rented the movie . The movie held true to the book . The developing love story between Man Woman and elephant was totally engaging . I would highly recommend this book to anyone looking for an exciting tale of circus life . Job well done . I look forward to reading more by this author ",4
"This was a very good book . It was interesting moved quickly . The characters were well developed and about mid book I worried the book would have a sad ending I do n't care for sad endings . But I was pleasantly surprised . I eloaned this book to my daughter who is enthralled with it as well . ",4
"And man in a nursing home tells his life story from the past and now in the present . Most of this read is sad but reality to this man . Even his present life seems sad.Talks about his life adventure as he embarks on a traveling circus company that travels by train.If you are sensitive to animal cruelty beware as some of this book has exposure to this matter.Had a great ending . It was written well . ",3
"This book was a quick read and I thought it was very interesting . The reader gets a close up view of the inner workings of the circus the performers animal caretakers etc mixed in with a love story of sorts . However even though the book was good it was not great . It 's not one I 'd want to keep or read again . The author introduced too many characters too quickly and only after reading on for awhile do you sort them out . I did n't really come to love any of the characters enough to care much about what happened to them . The plot seemed weak character development weak . I liked the HBO series Carnivale and although this is also a circus book it was slightly disappointing to me . ",3
"I thoroughly enjoyed reading this novel . The author does a great job of holding the readers interest by flashing back and forward . I never felt a lull in the story . ",4
"I am truly enjoying the story and the characters . There are certain parts of the book I felt the author could have left out and really added no benefit to the story . The sexual content of them was too much for me . But all in all worth the read . ",4
"Probably any tale set at a travelling circus is going to be wonderfully colorful but this one surpassed my expectations . I was so engrossed in what was going to happen with all the characters and just absolutely loved the whole thing . ",4
"I do n't think this story could have been any better than it was . I read it front to back in one sitting . I just could n't put it down ! I do n't read reviews before I read a book I 'll read anything I can get my hands on . When I got this book I flipped through it and I did n't think I 'd like it because of the pictures . But after the FIRST page I was hooked . I LOVED LOVED LOVED Jacob and Marlanaand HATED Uncle Al and August . I wanted to cry everytime Auggie went to the tent to lay it on Rosie . It made me sick . It 's been a while since I read something so moving ! A+++++++++ ",4
"Read the book in two days . Pulls you in and keeps you wanting more from beginning to end . Also one of the best book endings I 've ever encountered . Absolutely loved this book ! ",4
"Definitely one of my favorite books I 've read recently ! The historical accuracy and intriguing plot line had my attention from the first chapter . MUST READ ! ! ",4
"Loved the story telling wish I had read it BEFORE seeing the movie . Felt like I was traveling with them . ",4
"I have read this book and listen to it and I preferred the audio book which surprised me . I felt you could follow the story much better by hearing the 2 different voices instead of reading text . ",2
"I bought this book because I ran out of things to read . I wandered around the store and noticed how much display this book was given to . I purchased it solely based on its popularity.I started reading it and had a bit of a hard time moving forward . English is not my native tongue and all the circus talk really made my head spin . I took a short break and finished an easy read and then resumed this book . I am glad I did.I felt very engaged after 13 of the book when most of the characters started to build and show their individual qualities . As the book went on I felt I was also living in this circus train and witnessing all the activities.My heart definitely melted when they acquired Rosie the elephant and at the same time I started loathing the character August for abusing the elephant so much . In addition to that the performer WalterKinko also transformed into this loving person that looked out after others.About half way through the book I think almost all readers wanted nothing more than Jacob and Marlena being together and the death of August and Uncle Al . One thing I do believe a good author offers is the connection between the readers and the characters and I definitely felt that engagement with some of them and my heart ached at times as the story continued.I am not sure if I am a big fan of the Old Jacob . Not that it is bad but I really just did not quite get why it was important to keep his voice in . I did not see how old Jacob has contributed to the book and I think it could do without.Overall I enjoyed the book so much and I was very happy to have resumed and finished it . It is a book that broadens your mind and showers you with all the circus knowledge . A fun and great read ! ",3
"I could n't put this down ! what a great series ! I read through it so quickly and really enjoyed the story behind it ! ",4
"Sara Gruen 's gorgeous new novel 'Water For Elephants ' unfolds as a dual narrative alternating between Jacob Jankowski 's life as a nonagenarian and his time spent working for a ragtag Depressionera circus as a young man . The plot is captivating I missed two meals because I did n't want to put the book down and Gruen 's writing as always is transcendent . She deftly evokes a fascinating period in American history that deserves to be revisited and her charactershuman and animal alikewill stay with you long after you turn the last page . ",4
"This book was extremely well written and absolutely amazing ! I love the story and the author 's vivid descriptions . There were parts that angered me parts that broke my heart and parts that made me laugh out loud ! Very well done ! ",4
"This book is one of the best I have read in a very long time . The author puts you in the depression era circus travels . The writing is so good you can almost smell the popcorn and peanuts . You experience the animals and the humans alike . I could not put it down and finished it in 2 days . Well worth your time ! ! I am sending it along to my family members . ",4
"I loved this book and especially liked the ending . I could n't wait to finish reading it so I could pass it on to others to enjoy . The narrative by the protaganist was so real you could feel and smell the scenes depicted as though it were you experiencing the events . I highly recommend this book . ",4
"This book was an OK readThe circus setting & the DepressionEra settingwas a refreshing change from books set in modern timesplaces.Characters were portrayed as characters that everyone meets while trying to succeedat a first job . ",2
"We tried to listen to it in the car . BUT our car was too noisey . So we had to listen to it at home . The voice could be clearer . ",2
"I came into this book not expecting much at all and ended up excessively loving it ! This is one of those stories where you think you 've figure out exactly how everything is going to go . . . And then nothing turns out the way you thought it would.Books that have a frame for the story like Water for Elephants had will if done well really get me to know and love the characters . Having Jacob 's narration of the circus events interrupted by ` present day Jacob ' was a nice little detail . I definitely felt sad for the ninetysomething year old feeling nearly helpless and lonely . As he feels he 's losing control of his life his mind slips back to the past and through these lapses we 're told the story.I never knew anything about how circuses traveled about in the past and hearing about the cutthroat America during the Great Depression certainly brought an overpowering feel of reality to the story . Jobs were few and far between and those that had them did anything they could to keep them . Describing the desperate times the hobo jungles and the pay cuts served to present a great representation of the time period.I loved hearing about the different circus acts though I know that was but a miniscule part of the story . The tiny facts and funniest little things kept my interest and had me smiling . This book is definitely dark and depressing at moments . At others it is brilliantly bright and full of hope . Any novel that can pull off both sides of the spectrum nearly flawlessly is excellent in my book.I give Water for Elephants 55 stars . It was fantastic and I 'll definitely have to check out the upcoming movie now ! I really recommend it . I have a feeling it is one of those books I will never forget . ",4
"I loved this book it was one that I could n't put down . I would recommend this to anyone who has done time on their hands ! ",4
"If everything this author writes is this enjoyable all I can say is if she writes them I 'll buy them ! ",4
"This is truly a well written book . The author let 's you clearly see a very frail old man his present hospitallike surroundings including the nursing staff and other elderly people in this assisted living facility.The author is clever enough to break up the terrible animal and human cruelties and sadness of the early 1930 's era the circus itself and the indignities some humans endured by inserting enough humor and back flashes to keep the reader from getting very depressed.This is not a pretty story but it certainly reminds me of the era which I am old enough to remember not from a circus life but from the life of a very poor homeless family.The author took me back to places I have not been in several decades . I can smell the circus animals see the uppity performers as well as the horrible tents the freaks and the laborers who set up and take down the tents . I can visualise from the words of Sara Gruen the trains in which many circus people travelled . Oh yes believe it or not as a little child but old enough to remember this is a mode of travel I recall vividly.I have put Sara Gruen 's other books on my Amazon wish list and if I do n't receive them as gifts I will eventually buy them for myself . Her written words come close to looking at old photograps in her novel Water for Elephants . ",4
"Lovvveeee this book . The story is awesome ! I cried soo many times . This book def tugs at your heart ! ESP for animal lovers ! ",4
"I loved this book . The author really wrote this book in a different way . A 93 year old in a home in one chapter then the next it is about himself as a young man . Then back to the nursing home and back to the young man 's life . I could not put the book down . I hope I can find more books written as well as this one . ",4
"Wow . I hope that 's not all I can say about this book but that 's where I 'll start . Wow.Every time I hesitate to think I 'll find a book that is captivating entertaining and that will keep my interest and keep me thinking about its characters long after the book is over I somehow seem to find myself happily surprised . Water for Elephants was one of those books . It was really that good.I heard good things about it always saw it on the shelves at bookstores but it was n't until recently that I decided to give it a chance . Why ? A book about a circus in the depressionprohibition era is probably as far away from my normal reading zone as I can get . But I 'm telling you it does n't matter ! Not one bit.Entertaining and engrossing from the very first chapter I was taken away on this journey with the characters . Nothing short of fascinating in ways I would n't have thought possible . Part love story part coming of age this is at its roots a story about life and the unexpected paths it may take . I really came to love the character of Jacob and sympathize with his situation and his love for animals . It 's been over a week since I 've finished the novel and I still think about the characters every day . I really got caught up in their world which is something I must say is sometimes way too rare in the books I read . Many are good stories but with Water for Elephants I really felt like I was traveling along with them in their adventures . A pleasant surprise.Overall I have already recommended to more than a few friends and would encouragingly recommend it here . It may just be one of those precious few books that when you finish it you stop and at a loss for words say wow . ",4
"how could you not love this book or the movie they are both fantastic stories and beautifully done i loved everything about it ",4
"This book hit every note for me . Gruen had me the moment she introduced Jacob as a veterinarian and Marlena as a horsewoman . Perfection ! The adventures the setting the desperation of the animals the workers and of the lovers all came together to make such a beautiful memorable read for me . Sweet revenge and a perfect ending make this one of my top ten reads and rereads time after time . I 've since recommended it to many people and it remains a favorite to this day . ",4
"Book has been extensively reviewed with detailed plot descriptions and also made into a movie . It was an enjoyable read that captures the essence of the 30 's beautifully . The characters were compelling and memorable making their struggles something the reader gets on board for very quickly . I do not wish to reveal any plot points but I was left with a few unanswered questions with respect to the main character and why his relationship with his children in his later years seemed so distant . ",3
"I had quite high expectations based on other reviews provided . Actually I did n't particularly enjoy this book . The writing style did n't quite gel for me and the characters were n't particularly believable . ",2
"I read this book last year and am sincerely hoping that the movie is able to sufficiently capture the adventure romance and poignancy . I not only enjoyed the flashbacks to the days in the circus I REALLY enjoyed the perspective of the character in a current day nursing home . This book has it all and is written in a way that it easily became a movie in my mind as I read . Many times books like this have sad endings but the ending to this story is excellent ! I highly recommend this book . ",4
"I love it when a friend hands you a book and says it 's one of the best she 's read and I can pass it on to everyone I know ! Hope you love it as much as I did . ",4
"I had this book on my to read list for some time when I saw that the movie was coming out soon I decided I better get to reading this . I listened to this as an audio book and it was very well done they have two readers one for Jacob in his twenties and one for Jacob in his nineties . It was a good read and I enjoyed learning about the circus.Jacob is ninety three and living in a retirement home through his dreams and daydreams he relives a tumultuous time in his life in his twenties . When Jacob is in his twenties he is getting ready to sit for his Veterinarian finals at Cornell University when he gets a call his parents have been killed in a car accident . Then when he gets home he finds out that the bank has seized his parents ' house . In a fit of grief and sorrow he abandons his exams and hops a train that just happens to be part of the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth . Through a series of circumstances he ends up working for them as their vet taking care of the exotic animals in their menagerie . In the process of all of this he falls in love with a beautiful performer named Marlena who has a brutally viscous husband who also happens to be Jacob 's boss.There were a number of things I liked about this book . The story moves quickly and has a sense of mystery and doom about it as Jacob falls deeper into the seedy goings on in the circus and deeper in love with Marlena . It is very engaging.It is clever how you see into Jacob 's life in the present while he is in a nursing home . These portions of the story really tug at your heart and give insight into an old man struggling to retain his sense of self in an environment where everything is sanitized and ordered . These glimpses are bittersweet in contrast to the crazy life Jacob lived obviously this man has lived and lived well and it is heartbreaking to watch him struggle with the descent into age that we are all faced with.The majority of the story is about Jacob 's life in the circus . Gruen does n't shy away from the nitty gritty including sex violence language as such this is definitely an adult read . Issues such as animal cruelty squalid living conditions for workers and the Depression are woven throughout . Making the story very believable and easy to relate to.All of the characters in this book are very human and engaging and have a lot of depth . Even the villainous characters Al and August have moments of graciousness and goodness . While the main good characters do things that border on bad if only through neglect.The only thing that really bothered me with this book is that I thought Jacob made too many bad decisions and too many mistakes . I understood that he was young and hotheaded but at the same time he is supposed to be very smartand welllet 's just say he does n't spend much time thinking about his actions . A lot of what happened he brought on himself and I think that this was inconsistent with the way he was presented as an upstanding citizen and character.The book ends well and should leave readers happy and smiling . The story is expertly told and the look into the way a circus runs fascinating . It would have been nice to have an afterward of Gruen talking about how accurately she represented the circus in this book . Were all circuses like this ? Or was this one particularly bad ? Overall this was a very engaging story I enjoyed it a lot and am happy that I read it . The characters are fascinating the glimpses into both life in the circus and life in a nursing home intriguing as well . I loved how the book was set up with us seeing the elder Jacob 's memoriesstory through his eyes . Definitely a book to check out if you are at all interested in circuses or people living during the Depression Era . ",4
"This is not a great book . It suffers from a predictable plot cardboard characters and formaldehyde dialogue and its success is obviously due to the imprimatur of the Oracle Oprah and you will notice that nearly all the positive reviews here are from the distaff side but it does have one salient virtue . It gets all the facts right.I become enraged when reading a novel if I notice that the author was too lazy to research look up what he 's writing about . In detective stories such errors are usually about guns in other novels inaccuracies are often about cars or planes . But Ms. Gruen to her everlasting credit has all the arcane details of the bygone circus life perfectly accurate . Because of this I 'm eager to forgive the book 's other shortcomings.Now obviously Sara Gruen did not work in a circus in the 1930s . She has never worked in a circus . She obviously learned all the arcane details of circus lore from reading other better books . One such book isCircus Paradeby the hobo writer Jim Tully.Circus Paradeis ten times the book that this one is and the original story of the elephant who got revenge on his mean trainer can be found in it . ",2
"This was a fantastic story . Jacob Jankowski is a 93 year old man . When the circus pays a visit to the lot across from the Nursing Home he lives in it takes him back to when he was employed by a circus during the depression . And so the book alternates between today and the 1930 's . This book grabbed me from the beginning . Especially since Jacob attended school at Cornell and caught the circus train on it 's way to Utica . Places I am very familiar with . The fact that he is Polish is another plus . This story is put together very well . Gruen obviously did her research and I finish this book with some knowledge about Jamaica ginger paralysis exotic animal behavior and of course the circus . It is definitely going on my personal list of classics and 1001 books to read before you die . ",4
"This was a great book ! I knew nothing about the circus and the life of its performers and workers . Now I feel like I lived through it ! Sara 's story was a page turner for sure . Excellent ! ",4
"I absolutly LOVED this book ! The characters jump off the page and you are transported into another time in another world that is the circus life . Once I started this book I never wanted to put it down . I ca n't wait to read Sara Gruen 's other titles she is obviously a very talented author.Take my word for it you 'll LOVE this book ! ",4
"I do n't know how I 've missed this oneit is such a powerful emotional read . Make sure you have your Kleenex handy because Water for Elephants is a tearjerker.The story is told in the first person with Jacob as the narrator . The story switches from Jacob in his nineties in the nursing home to Jacob in his twenties during his circus days . Sometimes alternating perspectives can get choppy but Sara Gruen gets the pacing just right.Water for Elephants is about a traveling circus but it is mostly a love storyor at least it was for me . Fans of historical fiction or readers just wanting an engrossing story will love this one.Just One GripeIt can get a little graphic at times.The Best Thing About This BookI loved the ending . ",4
"I started reading this book because I had seen the movie and loved it . Everyone said the book was better . The book is better but I wish I had read it first . It was a page turner I had trouble putting it down . ",4
"Part of me feels like this book had all the trappings of a steamy romance novel without all the sexy bits . It was certainly readable enough but the love story between Jacob and Marlena was what kept the story going and for me it just was n't enough . I needed more feeling more passion more drama and if this was the angle the book was going to take more sexy bits.Having recently readThe Night Circus I like the angle of the dark side of the lives of traveling circus people but it almost seemed like too much of a trope when Jacob ran away with the circus . Still I suppose enough people must have done so back in the day for it to become a saying.I thought the book was good but I was expecting something great given the book 's popularity and I just do n't feel like I found it with Water for Elephants . There is some good action and some romance but to me it felt like more of a romance novel without much sex than a contemporary literary classic . Even then I love a happy ending and could n't wait to read this one as I got closer and closer to the climax . Just could have used more climax ",2
"This was a great book . Could not put it down . I wanted to read more adventures from the main character . ",4
"OkI hate giving an even average review for books but for this one I am going to say it was a little below average . The ending was not good . PERIOD . Even if we as the reader were sopposed to interpret it as beleivable it was n't . Also if we were made to make up our own interpreation about the ending it still doesnt sit weil.Also there is alot of catching up . The female lead character spills her story at the end but it 's too much information without a sense of who she really is . Overall the book was just ok . If the ending stopped a few pages before the end it would have been better . I also felt that besides the obvious differences the movie and the book were both a little below average . Usually the book is either profoundly better or ridiculously worse than the movie . I read the book twice and saw the movie once and I rate them as followsThe book 3 starsThe movie 1 star because it costed way more money.I am glad everyone loved the book though ! Maybe it 's just me ? ",2
"I enjoyed the book much more than the movie always do ! It was as touching as The Notebook for me . ",4
"At times the story can be sad but overall the resiliance of the main characters makes it a story you 'll think about for a few days when you are done . You 'll never see a circus the same way again . ",3
"This is a beautiful novel about the trials and tribulations of being on the road with the circus . The horrors that befall the working men as well as the animals are absolutely atrocious but it is written in a heartfelt and sympathetic way . ",4
"After the sudden death of his parents veterinary student Jacob joins the circus where he falls in love with the elephant Rosie and her rider Marlena . Both of his loves though are horrifically abused by August the animal trainer . The setting of a circus during the Great Depression and Gruen 's obvious affection and knowledge of the period and setting create an engaging book but the plot and main characters leave much to be desired in terms of originality or interest . Though gritty and unflinching particularly in its look at animal cruelty the book 's potential is wasted sadly . Turns out to be pretty meh . Grade C+ ",2
"I was curious . I knew there was a movie based on the book . I had never seen that movie as I thought it looked cheesy . So I took a chance on the book and was not disappointed ! What a view into the circus culture ! Things the customers do n't see and would never expect ! I 've been dying to see the movie since and ca n't find it in Redbox and none of my friends own it . And it 's not On Demand ! I will see it at some point though . I think now it will be worth it . ",4
"I had the opportunity to meet Sara Gruen recently . She came to Fort Collins because her German Shephard needed open heart surgery and while she was in town she held a discussionbook signing at a local bookstore . Something she said struck me as rather odd . She said that she wanted the old circus photographs included in her novel because she did n't feel her readers would believe what she had written without the pictures . I 'm not sure why she would feel this way because as many reviewers have noted her descriptions of the circus where the strongest parts of this novel.This was a book that I wanted to like better but after all was said and done it did n't leave much of an impression other than her extensive research . The story particularly the love story was cliched and the entire plot is predictable . Additionally some parts of the story do n't seem plausible . SPOILER For example why would Jacob walk away from an Ivy League degree needing only to complete a final exam ? Yes his parents were killed but he knows that they made great sacrifices for him to attend Cornell . And what are the odds that when he jumps onto a passing train in the middle of the night it just happens to be a circus train ? In addition to the predictable plot it was hard to relate to any of thecliched characters . I think it says a lot when the most interesting character in the book is Rosie the elephant . Jacob displays little or no character growth . And the book has a typical Hollywood ending where the good guys get everything they want even though they 've had to sacrifice virtually nothing . And some of the dialogue in this book reads like a romance novel.That said there are flashes of quality in this novel . The sections that take place inside the nursing home are well done and in fact old Jacob is a more interesting character than young Jacob.I just wish that the author had taken as much care in plotting her book and developing her characters as she did in doing her research . ",1
"Water for Elephants is a very fine book well worth the read for many reasons1 . The book wonderfully captures place and time . Set in the depression it authentically captures the spirit and feel of the era including its description of the economics of the time hobo life the depression etc.2 . It vibrantly and realistically describes life in the travelling circuses of the era including the freaks and other performers the pecking order between management performers and workers life on the train stops for shows in the small communities and vivid descriptions of the performances.3 . The characters have depth and breadth and touch you with their humanity which is sometimes kind and more often than not evilas humans can be.4 . The novel very effectively contrasts the protagonist 's current situation in a nursing home with his recollections of the bulk of the novel 's depressionera actions.5 . Without giving too much away the novel very satisfyingly if perhaps a bit unrealistically concludes with a feel good endingand who can resist a happy ending.In conclusion this book is a decently written plot driven page turner which tells a touching tale set against a colorful background of time and place populated by characters which are larger than life yet realistic in thought and deed . While the writing perhaps does not qualify it as great literature its easily the best of the ten or so books I have read over the past six months.Ken ",4
"Very good novel . I could not stop reading it . I was engaged at all times during the reading and loved every chapter of it . Easy to read . ",4
"Not your typical love story at all . I have n't read a book in some time and could n't be happier that this was the book I chose . Captivating thought provoking touching and just plain wonderful . Easy to pick back up and remember where you left off if you can put it down . I just loved it . ",4
"This book flashed between Jacob as an old man and Jacob as a young man just after his parents ' death . Despite his being utterly destroyed by his parents ' death he never really mentioned it again after he joined the circus . That seemed odd to me . And the roughness with which he was greeted when he joined would make most ivy league softies run for the hills so that was odd too . I could never understand how he was finding comfort from his parents ' death by being treated like crap and working like a dog with barely any water to drink or shower.I enjoyed the elderly Jacob much more and was charmed by the ending . I did not enjoy the lengthy descriptions of rolling up circus tents and beating of animals . I know it happened but it made me feel ill. And the sexual descriptions ? I do n't like them . I 'm not a prude and I certainly enjoy sex and all its wonders but I 'm sick of reading about it in every single book I touch . Just once ca n't we just leave the details of that out and let a tale stand on its own ? I guess the ending made the book worthwhile but I would n't recommend it as much as others have recommended it to me . ",2
"I loved this book ! So well written . It has everything you want in a book ! Do n't miss this one . ",4
"This is a good book that keeps you interested through the whole thing . The characters are developed nicely and it has a great ending ",3
"One sign of a skilled novelist is the ability to write convincingly from the point of view of characters who share little in common with the author . I would liken this skill to that of a masterful actor capable of playing a wide range of movie roles.In Water For Elephants Sara Gruen showcases this rare talent telling a Depressionera circus tale from the perspective of a veterinarian named Jacob Jankowski both in his twenties and flashing back from his nineties in a convincing and captivating manner . The contrast between the innocent young Jacob 's foray into the roughandtumble world of a traveling circus and the old Jacob 's cynical ruminations on life in a nursing home creates a book end effect that makes his story feel more real and meaningful.Gruen has also infused her novel with enough historical details to bring the sights sounds and smells of the midway menagerie and big top to life without cramming in superfluous details that could have dragged on the story line . The dialogue is sublime especially the banter between the working men who handle the behindthescenes grunt work . Her characterization is strong as well I was moved by the starcrossed romance between Jacob and Marlena repulsed by the evil of August and Uncle Al and captivated by the antics of Rosie the elephant.All in all a thoroughly enjoyable reading experience most deserving of its long run on the bestseller list . ",4
"What can I say that has n't been said ? This is a great book and at this writing is $ 4.17 for Kindle which can not be beat . If you 're even thinking about buying it go ahead and get it . You wo n't be disappointed . ",4
"This was a great story ! I found myself unable to put it down completely immersed in the characters . And the ending was everything I hoped it would be . ",4
"I enjoyed this book . It 's not going to take great intelligence to get through or offer much of a challenge but it was an easy fun read . ",3
"This was a great easy read . I 'll read it again eventually . The author paints this story in such a way that I enjoyed the visions in my mind as each scene unfolded . The characters are grandly unique . Enjoy ! ",3
"I read this book at a very busy time of my life when I had only about haft of a month to finish my MS degree of Chemistry something related to water No regret at all about spending 1 day to finish reading ! Love it love the characters love the elephant And the book became an excellent bedtime story for my husband who does n't like and does n't have time to read novels at all ",4
"On the recommendation of some coworkers I read this book . This was a great story about a traveling circus . I probably read this in less than a week . Everyone I know who has read it really enjoyed it . The only thing I did n't like was the unbelievable ending . Maybe I set my standards too high but I just did not like it . ",3
"I purchased this as an audiobook . My husband and I listened to it on our trip down to and back from Iowa over Christmas . This was his first audiobook ever . Actually his first book for pleasure since he was in high school . This was a fantastic story ! We found ourselves discussing the characters and storyline as if they were real when we would stop for lunch etc . I typically sleep for most of the drive thankfully I am the passenger but this book kept me awake the entire drive.The storyline starts out with main character as an old man . Then switches to him as a young man and how he ends up working with a circus that travels by train from location to location . The characters are introduced beautifully . Each character has a distinct voice in the audiobook . Even though the story moves from present time and back to the past throughout the story there is no confusion as to what time the story is in . We are still talking about this book every so often.Kimberly ",4
"I really enjoyed this book ! I bought it a while ago but have had so many books to read I 'm so glad I finally got to it . What a wonderful story and a fast read . Adding it to one of my favorites ",4
"This is a real page turner . I started it yesterday and I cant seem to put it down . It shows you what it must have been like to be part of a traveling circus in the 20 's . ",4
"After reading Water for Elephants it was hard to pinpoint what made it so great . The honesty in the writing the splashes of romance or the fascinating events . Perhaps it was the inside view of circus life as it used to be . Whatever it was I have to say Water for Elephants is as the ring leader might put it Spectacular ! ",4
"Kimberly Bowling OH USA.then this is it I never knew a story based around a circus would be so good . A read woth reading . Cant wait to see what eles the author comes out with . ",4
"I saw the movie and the book was great . You get such a better incite into the characters . I thoroughly enjoyed it ",4
"Water for Elephants is wonderful Depressionera circus history retold with a compelling story line . I was fascinated by this carefully researched wellwritten look at the circus as a community with its own cultural norms traditions pecking order and social bonds.A littlebit love story a littlebit adventurethe underlying message is that individuals can overcome adversity if they are brave enough or desperate enough to take their lives into their own hands.This is the story of Jacob Jankowski a Cornell vet student who loses everything in the Great Depression parents home incipient career . Almost by accident he becomes a circus veterinarian . After a long and successful life the elderly Jankowski escapes from a nursing home to once again join the Big Top.The author agiley shifts between Jacob 's memories of circus life and his life in the nursing home . As Jacob 's memories and presentday realities merge the line between truth and fiction blurs . Perhaps Mr. Jankowski really did toddle off in his walker to be reabsorbed into the circus world perhaps he died dreaming in his wheelchair.This is a lovely book wellworth reading if you are interested in early twentiethcentury history andor the aging process.Kim BurdickStanton Delaware ",4
"OK this is the classic do n't read a book by its cover.The title of this book and the cover picture caused me to leave it sitting on my bookshelf for almost a year it was a gift . I finally picked it up because I had nothing left to read and I really really enjoyed it ! 93 year old Jacob is the narrator and he flashes back and forth from his current life in a nursing home to his past life as a member of a traveling circus during his early twenty's.There are two stories going on here the story of his youth which is a fascinating one and the more subtle story of the passage of time and the process of aging on the human body psyche and relations.The stories of Jacob 's youth as a circus veterinarian and his relationships with the other performers were not only interesting as stories but historically educational and informational . It is all about life in the Circuses of the 1930 's the great depression and prohibition . However it is the secondary more subtle story of the aging process that I find haunting me still . ",4
"A great story wonderfully told ! This book had been on my list for months . now I wonder why I took so long getting to it ! ",4
"As with most books made into movies this book is better . It provides thicker more complexdeveloped characters relationships and events . The writing style was perfect for the tone of the story and the storyline was fastmoving . ",4
"I 've decided I just ca n't finish this book . The main character is a 23year old male but c'mon I just do n't appreciate some of the details the author is having him describe and they are totally unnecessary to the story . I 've read almost nine chapters and decided I do n't need any more images like the explicit strip scene the details of a graphic 8pager and I certainly did n't need the picture of what the dwarf is doing alone on his cot while looking at the graphic magazine . It 's a big disappointment because the story is actually interesting and I want to find out what happens but not badly enough to wade through the sludge . I do n't think I 've been this disappointed in a story since the ending of Angela 's Ashes . ",0
"Best book I 've read in a long while . I enjoyed the the way the author move back and forth in time . ",4
"This book is written in two narratives the past and the present . It is written with such elegance and grace that each voice is like a piece of silk weaving in and out like a slice of humanity screaming to be heard.Jacob Jankouwski tells this unbelievable tale from a rest home at ninety or is it 93 ? And his memories are so lush and tragic that the reader will be transformed into his past along with him.Jacob enters the ` circus life ' by no desire of his own but this world changes him beyond belief . The reader will be changed too and utterly awakened by this world within a world . The caste system at The Benzini Brother 's Most Spectacular Show on Earth reminded me of working on the cruise shipsthe engineers waiters and third country employees working below the ship boiler room and the showgirls casino staff and shop girls working and living above the shipas if they were superior in some respect.Rosie the elephant becomes the voice for all animals whom deserve respect and caring for . She also becomes the voice for old folks such as Jacob who for some reason are tossed to the side because of old bones old minds and loss of memory.Oh but Rosie has not lost her memory as the reader will see . And the abusers will pay for their sins as we all do.Sara Gruen has created brilliant memorable characters people whom I fell in love with and cared deeply about . For example Walter the dwarf who was so hard and incredulous on the outside but had a dog he adored like his own baby . The characters are articulately developed and one will even feel empathy for the hateful August.Water for Elephants is a book about humanity how it can be dark and light at the same time how people can change how others do not how survival is connected to love and above all how giving water to elephants is like giving water to the world.I dreaded turning the last page exiting the circus and all of its peculiarities and delights . This book will leave the reader thirsty for more and more and more . A must read for fiction freaks ! ",4
"I read this book from cover to cover and I 'm glad I did . But I thought it was very sad because of the old man in the nursing home narrating the book because of the animal abuse to the elephant and other species and because of the spousal abuse to the elephant rider . Oh there were elements of humor friendship love and happiness . The ending was good as well as unexpected . Still if I had to describe this book in just one word it would be sad . ",3
"Loved this bookit was for our book club otherwiseI would n't have read itand come to find it willbe a movie this year too which I 'm also looking forward toloaningthis one to my sister who 's a brand new Kindle ownerI normally dont alwaysread a book this quickly.but this was so good I could n't put it down andread it in a weekend ! ! ",4
"Easy reading and interesting story . Never saw the movie but saw trailer and it seemed very interesting . Will watch movie ",3
"I had already seen the movie and enjoyed the story . But the novel was very descriptive to me that makes or breaks a book . ",4
"When I first started to read this book I thought I would never be able to stay interested in a circus book . I was sooo wrong . This is a book about circus life but it is so much more . I read it in a day . Once I got into it I could n't put it down . Buy it.you wo n't be disappointed . ",4
"How do we see older people as burdens or a trove of interesting knowledge and life experience . Water for elephants brings these thoughts to the for front and makes you look deep into the values of life itself . ",4
"This book was great . I liked it way more than the movie . It is gripping and well written . Definitely would recommend it ! ",3
"This is one of those reads that when you are done you can not get out of your mind ! I have loaned my book out many times always insisting I get it back . The characters are endearing and the story line is great ! I ca n't wait to see if this becomes a movie ! Whenever I have someone ask for recommendations for good reads this is at the top of my list . ",4
"We are all going to be old one day and remember the times of our youth . This book takes you back to the time of a young man as he slaved his way for a traveling circus . It is all about trials hardships and love prevailing of course . I could not stop reading this book and in the end could only imagine myself as the character wanting for a last taste of my youth . ",4
"This was an excellent story ! Puts truth to the phrase you never know where life will take you ! I definitely want to visit the Ringling museum in Sarasota fl . This book gives an insight to the circus that I never would have imagined . Great Story ! ",4
"A beach read or a mental health day I spent my day on the back balcony at the circus . Just my childhood trips to the circus this book makes want to run away with the circus . Best book i have read in a long time . ",4
"Have you ever experienced an unexpected disaster something that leaves you completely alone ? Water for Elephants tells the story of life after tragedy when Jacob Jankowski is accidentally thrust into a chaotic circus whirlwind . He discovers the truth about life on a circus for both the performers and workers but more importantly the circus animals . A veterinary major at Cornell university drop out Jacob needed a break from the world that had plummeted toward him at a thousand miles an hour . Leaving him with not a cent not a family member and no certain future.This 5 star book opened the eyes of many across the world to the condition of a circus life in the early 1900 's and how this life could go spinning out of control at any given moment . Each page rich with love hate and jealousy Sara Gruen creates a masterpiece of twists and turns aboard the ` Flying Squadron ' with the ` Benzini Brothers most Spectacular Show on Earth ' . This book shows the greed and hunger for money and wealth and the harsh conditions of the Great Depression from front to back . Her writing leaves you hanging on every word and her distinct characters introduced throughout the story never expose their comfortable selves among the dishonest businesses of the circus . Definitely a 5 star novel I recommend this book to both teenagers and adults as a MUST read book Water for Elephants truly makes a difference.kd ",4
"I know there are hundreds of reviews for this book but I liked it so much I just had to add mine . I usually read a book before seeing the movie . I fing that the book is generally better than the movie . This book was amazing . I felt like I was living in a real circus . I am also a nurse so can identify with the main character in a nursing home . Nursing home people are so very lonely . anyway this is a real story like the ones you were told when you were young . It took me back and made me feel like I was truely there . You have to read it . Maybe I 'll see the movie now.barbara ",4
"This is a wonderful story . I never thought I would enjoy a novel about life in a circus so when my friend recommended this book I was very sceptical . Even the title seemed a little strange . However I loved every page . Go on . Read it . It 's great . ",4
"I saw the movie so I had to read the book and the movie is pretty accurate with the book pretty detailed into the circus life I liked it alot and would probably read it again ",3
"Sara Gruen 's gorgeous new novel WATER FOR ELEPHANTS unfolds as a dual narrative alternating between Jacob Jankowski 's life as a nonagenarian and his time spent working for a ragtag Depressionera circus as a young man . The plot is captivating I missed two meals because I did n't want to put the book down and Gruen 's writing as always is transcendent . She deftly evokes a fascinating period in American history that deserves to be revisited and her charactershuman and animal alikewill stay with you long after you turn the last page . ",4
"Thoroughly enjoyed reading this book . Could n't put it down . This was one of the quickest reads I 've had in a long time . Well written and paced with alot of drama and humor that keeps you interested in the book.I could tell that this was written by an author that knows what she is doing and gives you just what you need to keep this book in hand . Well done . ",4
"I absolutely enjoyed this book from beginning to end ! A great story with memorable characters blended with true history . Highly recommend ! ",4
"Despite haunting cover art and a great title despite obvious research and well thought out prose and despite the fact that this book is the darling of the Independent Booksellers Association I felt let down . Part of the problem was that I expected a lot and had held this book on my shelf until I could really savor it . It does start out strong and Gruen keeps her time periods well separated . But the characters especially the narrator feel stock and unfinished and merely devices on which to hang the proceeds of research . Because of the plusses of the book enumerated in the opening sentence of my review I give 3 stars but for the back story it would be fewer . ",2
"I was looking for something different to read instead of my usual style of book and found this to be a great decision ! The story was capturing and really gave you some interesting insights into the original traveling circus . ",4
"I knew nothing of this story before I read this book . I have n't seen the movie so I went into this completely unbiased . It was Great ! ! ! The storyline and the details of this book are incredible . Even though the story gets very sad and hopeless at times it is a wonderful book . A must read ! ! ! ! ! ",4
"Better than the movie with all the extra context . I enjoyed this book as an easy fluff read . It was n't something I could n't put down but was a good book . ",3
"I have to admit I was a bit skeptical of this book . A book about a circus ? How good could that really be ? I thought . It took awhile for me to get into it too . It was n't that the beginning was boring or anything it just took me a little while to get into the plot of the story . After I did though I could n't put it down . I lost sleep over the need to finish this book . Some parts I found surprisingly funny . It was an overall all around good book . ",4
"As usual the book is so much better than the movie . A great novel about relationships and finding who you are . ",4
"What a terrific read ! It personally took me a few chapters to get into the book seemed slow in parts but the story line made up for it . My sisters ranted and raved about this book when it first hit the scene in 2006 I believe and I just read it and it was worth the read . The depth and substance of the book was what kept me interested and invested in the characters.Taken from another reviewer because it 's said so well and I believe the same thing of the book Water for Elephants is a great book for a summer read . It 's obvious that the author did her research into the time period postDepression America and the subject matter traveling circuses . According to the author 's note at the end of the book many of the compelling anecdotes in the story were based upon real events culled from the diaries and personal histories of oldtime circus performers . As a result Water for Elephants is a novel that boasts the rare combination of being both entertaining and informative . ",3
"I 'd been hearing a lot of rave reviews of this book in the writer 's groups that I 'm in ALL rave reviews as a matter of fact and when I heard that the movie was due out soon I purchased the ebook now so that I could compare the book to the movie . There are so many great things about this book when you put it all together it was just one of the best books I 've ever read.The point of view for Water for Elephants is unique . Jacob the main character comes to us first as a 90 or is it 93 ? year old man who is living in a seniors home . Most of the story is Jacob recalling his life with the circus with short trips back to his hereandnow . I felt that I came to know all of Jacob . From his beginning losing his parents in an accident to his experience with the circus and his true love to his last days feeling trapped in a body and mind that he was n't free to control himself any longer.With the story being set in the 1930 's and in the Depression the book was even more interesting to read about days in that era . At the end of the book the author describes all of her research that she 's done for her book . It 's obvious by how thoroughly and well written Water for Elephants is.I highly HIGHLY recommend this book ! ! ! ",4
"Water For Elephants was just what I wanted in a book right now an easy read fun romantic with a unique setting . Sara Gruen 's research into the life of long forgotten train circuses and America in the 1930s was obviously extensive and the way she used her knowledge in the writing of the book was loving and playful and made me want to learn more about it . There were a few things that I looked up curious to know if they were the author 's invention or actual historical facts that she incorporated into her story . For example I had never heard of Jake Leg before and commend her for revealing in the context of her book parts of American history that most people must be unfamiliar with . The characters were well drawn and the fictional Circus she created was completely believable . I loved the photographs that accompanied each chapter which added to the believablity of her story . I would recommend this book to anyone looking to immerse themselves in a good old fashioned yarn filled with romance and even a little danger . ",3
"There were many good qualities in Water for Elephants.It starts off with a very actionpacked prologue.Then suddenly you 're witnessing a confused aging old man who is being shuffled around in a nursing home losing his memory and therefore also his mind.Water for Elephants then switches between the old man Jacob 's life versus the younger version of Jacob when he was in his early twenties during probably the most important period of his life ever.Then you are brought back to the actionpacked prologue except this time when reading it you get the back story leading up to the event.In his 20s Jacob was a vet for traveling circus for three months . Obviously traveling with the circus is going to make for some really interesting stories.There are many details throughout the book that I did n't think were nearly as bad as others have made them out to be in these other reviews on Amazon.The sexual content really was n't that explicit . There were maybe two sex scenes and they really were n't that bad . If you want explicit sex in the middle of a fiction story without being considered erotic fiction read John Irving 's The World According to Garp andor A Prayer for Owen Meany andor The Fourth Hand andor The 158Pound Marriage . All very good books that have way more detailed sex scenes that may or may not make you squeamish . Water for Elephants barely grazed the surface of reproductive organs and whatnot . So if you 're worried about that do n't be.The animal cruelty also was not that bad . Yes it is written that someone would walk off and you could hear the animal cry out but other than that it was n't detracting from the entire story . And not only that but I 'm sure things like that really happen on the road . There are definitely people who are capable of doing such things . If you watch any show on Animal Planet or watch any real animal documentaries on late night television you 'll see that things are much worse . So if you 're leery of the cruelty content do n't be . It is also grazed over.There are many real elements as far as I can tell and whether or not the research was done before writing the novel I think the descriptions are pretty believable.The only characters that really stood out were Walter and in the beginning Camel . Jacob was a very strong narrator but I did n't care for his burst of love for Marlena a married performer.The back story behind Marlena and August 's marriage was important but it was summed up in about two paragraphs.The story behind Uncle Al 's creation of the circus was interesting but we barely meet Uncle Al . And both August and Uncle Al seem to be bipolar which was annoying and unnecessary . It is okay for there to be normal performers . I do n't think it was needed to move the story along or to qualify their actions.Most of the characters are added as bodies but none have interesting or deep back stories . To make it easier to remember their names and who they are as the names are mentioned often it would have been better for me to know more about these guys so that they really stick out in my mind as real people.There was nothing memorable about Camel by the end either he lost his appeal about halfway through the book.Walter was interesting and probably my favorite character.Marlena was a bother . I did n't get the whole tragedy of her marriage to August and felt that his temper was added in as only an excuse to make her want to be with Jacob . The tangled love story was n't even as interesting to me as the whole circus thing Redlighting and setting up the stage and canceled wages and the whole life of a circus performer.By the middle of the book people started to become missing andor dead but I did n't care about those characters anyway so it seemed like those events were added just to make Water for Elephants interesting as a whole.This is my first Sara Gruen book but it felt like Water for Elephants was a first novel for her too though it was written well the plot kind of fell flat by the middle of the story . It was entertaining enough to finish but I probably wo n't be recommending it . I may try her again in the future but I wo n't be jumping to it . ",2
"I loved this story line but because of the few sexual instance I will not recommend to my friends or my teenage children . It was not necessary to be explicit to be effective . I loved the elderly community and how the novel flashbacks between present day and depression era . I have grandparents this age and it was true to life in many ways . ",2
"Loved it ! Absolutely loved it ! The story was sweet complicated and funny at times and it did n't leave me hanging . The story was completed and I love that ! So many books leave you without finishing what was started and I liked that this one did n't . You find out exactly where the characters end up . I gave it 4 stars instead of 5 because I could 've done without the nursing home flashbacks and I felt that the elderly Jacob 's personality did n't match the younger Jacob 's personality . At times i wished the whole book was set in the circus days but then I feel like the reader would n't have gotten the sense of closer that comes with knowing where the character ends up in life.Overall a wonderful story ! I highly recommend it and hope the movie does n't ruin it . ",3
"Best book I 've read in a while ! ! ! A must read ! ! ! Buy it ! Trust me ! It 's fantastic ! ! ! ! ! The only disappointment was that I finished it so fast could n't put it down now what will I read ? ? ",4
"This book was soooooo good I can not even put it into words without spoiling it for you ! ! ! You will not be disappointed ! I read this book in 2 days when I was n't reading it thats all I could think about ! I HIGHLY suggest this book to anyone looking for a book with an EXCELLENT plot ! ! ! ! ! ",4
"Ninetyyear old Jacob lives in a nursing home where he spends most days parked in the hallway waiting for Sundays when a visitor comes . He 's excited because a traveling circus has set up next door and he ca n't wait to go . He flashes back to his youth during the Depression when he was penniless and joined a thirdrate circus as an almostqualified vet . There he fell in love with Marlena the beautiful star horsewoman . Unfortunately his boss was her brutish husband.I absolutely loved this book . It contrasts the misery of being old and helpless with the nonstop action of life on the show though that certainly had its share of misery too . The pathetic circus Jacob joined was full of lively characters some kindly others cruel and Jacob was forced to grow from naive youth to courageous man . There were many pages that reduced me to sobs especially those detailing the agonizing despair of some nursing home residents and some instances of animal cruelty at the circus.I would have given this book five stars but I did n't like that it was written in the first person which immediately takes away some suspense as to the future of the narrator and it was written entirely in the present tense which struck me as awkward . The story itself is engaging exciting touching and rewarding . Highly recommended . ",3
"What a GREAT book . Never saw the movie until after and I am glad of that . The book was amazing ! ! ! ",4
"Another book that kept me up into way too late each night . I would have loved to read more historical info behind the circus and its hype in the 1920s and 30s . This was an amazing book and I loved how it was told from present day in the eyes of someone who had lived it . ",3
"Once I started reading this book I could n't put it down ! Grabs you from the first page and does n't let go ! A fastmoving read with lots of action and no filler . It has love romance mystery murder animals and history . All while riding a circus train during the depression in 1931 . Cutting deftly back and forth from the eyes of an elderly man residing in a nursing home to the days he spent traveling with the train circuses in the 1930 's this story is gritty realistic fascinating and highly entertaining . You wo n't be disappointed . ",4
"As I usually do I read the book first and then saw the movie . Both were great but like all the movie changed some things . Both were good but sometimes I just wish they would n't change the movie . ",3
"This took me to a different time and place than I 've known before . I felt like I was there . The stress of the hard work living conditions lack of money and food social hierachy hidden relationships and an ill schizophrenic fueled a desire for resolution . That 's what good books do . ",4
"Did not care for the animal cruelty other than that it was a sensual story with good characters . I hate the circus but really enjoyed this book ! It starts off slow so give it some time . I really enjoyed the perspectives between the narrator as a young and old man . I read it in 2 days . ",4
"This is the first book I have read for a while that I read within days . I loved the end and how it flowed . ",4
"Please read the book ignore the movie . The book tells an amazing love story ! ! Take a few hours to learn about human and animal bonds ",4
"I had first seen the movie and enjoyed it tremendously . Knowing that the books are far better than the movie I read the book . I enjoyed the depth of the main character Jacob and the way the author interspersed his recollection of his circus days with the hassle of a nursing home . I was cheering his escape all along ! A wonderful character a great story . ",4
"It was n't obviously my type of book . Maybe it was because I had such a high expectation ? The best part of the book was the author 's note at the end . I enjoyed reading that . ",1
"Water for Elephants should not be missed ! It is a beautifully written story with a lot of heart and soul . The prologue will completely captivate you and you will be hooked from page one ! The story begins with a 90 year old who also could be 93 he does n't actually remember how old he is named Jacob Jankowski . Jacob is your typical old man . He 's seen too much in his life to give a crap what people say and think . From the first line Jacob spoke I knew I loved him . He was sarcastic and funny but also sad and lonely . His wife died a few years before and his children and grandchildren only visit him in the nursing home for a few hours on Sunday . All Jacob has left are his memories of working for a circus when he was 23 years old Rob Pattinson played young Jacob in the movie and it was wonderful having to picture him as Jacob . It was a beautiful sight ! .At 23 Jacob is about to graduate veterinary school and go on to work for his father caring for animals . When his parents die in a car accident he learns that his parents left him with no money and the bank repossessed their home it takes place during the depression and the Jankowski 's were struggling along with everyone else . Jacob having no where to turn jumps unto a moving train and in this moment his life will change forever.Water for Elephants has an amazing cast of characters that all bring something to the story . Jacob meets the beautiful Marlena her charming but sadistic husband August as well as many others that all shape Jacob 's life one way or another . Even the animals play a huge role in his life ! I think my favorite part of this story was the last few pages . Not because it was over but everything came together so beautifully . We last see Jacob as his 90 or 93 year old self and you will not be disappointed on how his life will turn out.Water for Elephants is a must read ! I just hope the movie will do this amazing book justice ! ",4
"I 've noticed that some have said they wanted to like this book due to the high praise others here have given it . I will try not to gush . But honestly this is one of THE best books I have EVER read.From the beginning to the magnificent and most satisfying end I was entirely delighted . Not every page was perfection I will admit but my annoyance was due to my own impatience about wanting to get back to a certain character rather than learning a bit more about another.It is quite clear from the moment you begin that the author did some seriously extensive research about the Depression era in general and circus life specifically.The way the author weaves the story between present day and older Jacob at 90 or 93 he ca n't quite remember and the flashbacks to the past when Jacob was in his 20 's are fantastic . She handles aging and its inherent frustrations quite well and Jacob is funny endearing and intensely likable.I enjoyed this novel so much I immediately took it to my parent 's and insisted they read it . Usually they stick to Nelson DeMille and Janet Evanovich novels whom I also enjoy so I knew this would be a little outside their comfort zone but they humored me and read it . They both loved it ! My father was as impressed as I at the ending the satisfaction of it.They both commented that some of the nursing home scenes were depressing Jacob discussing his failing memory or lack of motor skills . But I say again the ending completely makes up for anything depressing in the home at least for my family ! Truly an amazing novel and I daresay should be on the list of best books for the 21st century . I read this book straight through without stopping to sleep.Just an FYI I actually HATE circuses . I find them tedious and beyond boring . NOT my sort of thing at all . Ugh . This book transcends all that . ",4
"In recent years publishers have put out a number of collections of early twentieth century circus photographs . The photographs are intensely interesting revealing the grime brutality and absurdity underneath the surface glamour of the traveling circuses of that era.Gruen was inspired by the photographs to write this novel . Gruen thoroughly researched her subject matter collecting scores of anecdotes that revealed the brutality and desperation of that world . She weaved the anecdotes together with a love story worthy of a threehanky weepie from the 1930s . The combination of grit and sweetness works only to a point but the inherently interesting nature of the subject matter managed to hold my interest to the end.To me however Gruen never managed to transcend her source material . The primary problem was the narrator 's voice . Although the book was sprinkled with circusspecific vocabularly of that era Gruen utterly fails to capture the rhythm or syntax of the time or milieu . Gruen 's language felt inappropriately contemporary which undermined the overall credibility of the story . The subject matter cried out for a writer with an ear for the street I kept thinking about what Damon Runyon or Ring Lardner could have done with this material.The other major problem was that Gruen overanthropomophized and overromanticized the animals in the story . Gruen could have honored the animals ' intelligence and decried the brutality of their treatment without veering into fantasy.In the end while I was n't sorry I read the book I would have preferred to read a nonfiction account of life in the Depressionera circus from a first hand source rather than this watered down trifle . ",2
"I bought this book because I wanted to see the movie . I opened it and the first few pages compelled me to download it immediately . I have been reading it through the new year and hate putting it down ! AWESOME book it has everything you 'd think went behind the scenes in the 30s in a circus Plus the Jacob J character at 90 or 25 is an amazing write being a writer I can say that the character had me at the visual in the first few pages ! ",4
"A different story from a different life . The characters seemed real . I was able to connect with all of them ",4
"I saw both the movie and the book and I liked the book better . The hype is worth the read and I would read the book again . This was an easy and entertaining read . ",4
"This book was enchanting . Immediately you become under it 's spell from the first words . The mystery history action and love stories of the circus all wrapped up in one.The story is about Jacob Jankowski the circus vet . Under tragic circumstances he joins a second rated circus and becomes entangled into all their lives whether he wants to or not . Bouncing between his current status which is in a nursing home at the age of 93 or 99 he 's not sure and his circus life there is a mystery deep in the heart of it . ",3
"I actually wanted to give this book a 4.5 because it was more than your average I like it 4 but not quite the brainexplodingspectacular 5 . It was close though . When I started reading I was n't sure if I 'd like it the story started slowly and felt disjointed at times . By the time I was about halfway through however I was flying through the pages sneaking off to read every moment I could spare . I even read in the middle of the work day ! Crazy . But it was that good . The circus culture of the early 1900s always intrigues me particularly where it relates to animals . Gruen treated the topic with affection and accuracy both of which she deftly imparts to the reader . I love Rosie the Elephant . A word to the wise this novel was fairly gritty both for violence and sex so not for YA readers . ",3
"I found this book while perusing Amazon.com . It is rare for me to find a book that is so entertaining but this one was . I have never read any of the other books by this author but she is excellent . The book takes you into the time of the depression and you feel smell and experience everything that the charachter is feeling . The main charachter is in his nineties now but we get to travel back in time through him to this time in U.S. history and experience how a traveling circus worked back then . It is such a richly written story you will not want to put it down . The desperation of the times the way people lived their expectations their feelings etc . are all here . I have recommended this book to multiple friends which I rarely do . You will not be disappointed with this story . There are no low points that drag . It 's a green light read from start to finish . There is an authors note at the end and she explains how she came up with the idea and her research to write this book depicting this time period and the circus era . Although it is fiction she got the facts first and melded it into this novel . Very good indeed . ",4
"Water for Elephants has all the makings for an entertaining read tragedy humor romance affairs . I put this aside for awhile trying to avoid all of the hype this book has received but I am definitely glad I finally picked it up.Told from the point of view of his 93year old self as he relives his life through his dreams Jacob a thenstudent about to finish gain his veterinary degree at the prestigious ivy league Cornell is abruptly summoned home to identify the bodies of his parents who have tragically died in a car accident . Left with no money no practice and no home he starts to walk unsure of where his once bright future now lies . He stumbles upon the train of the Benzini Brothers circus . The show 's ringmaster Uncle Al whose ultimate goal is to oneup the more prominent Ringling circus takes Jacob on as a vet to the animals in the show because of course if Ringling has a vet he needs one too.Life on a circus train however is n't all it 's cracked up to be and the circus and country has fallen on hard times & the working men find that more and more of their coworkers have been redlighted tossed off the train in the dead of night in order to cut costs . With being redlighted as a real possibility workers have to do their part to earn their place on the train and work hard not to make the wrong people angry often without pay.As Jacob adjusts to life as part of a circus he finds foes friends who become family and of course the love interests of the married star of the show ! A tangled mess of jealous mental illnesses and the struggle to simply survive unfolds as the memories of his life come back to the 93year old man in the nursing home.Definitely one of the best books I 've read of all time with 100 % ability to become one of the classics that children will one day read in their English classes . If you 're looking for a book to transport you back in time with the excitement that life on a circus trail brings this is definitely a book for you to pick up . ",4
"This is one of those books that will stay with me for a long time . It tells a good story 2 actually it keeps the reader interested and it has a lovely ending . ",4
"I loved this book . I could not put it down because I was in such suspense about what would happen next . I particularly love the storyline of the character as an old man in a nursing home having worked in nursing homes the descriptions are spot on . I laughed out loud at his antics and cried when characters I had grown to love were lost to tragedy . I have never read a book where an elephant is a main character and pivotal to the story . All I can say is WOW . ",4
"I could not finish this book . It might have been interesting were it not for the terrible language the graphic and totally disgusting sex scenes and the cruelty to animals ugh ! I hated it ! ! ! I still have the scene of the masturbating dwarf etched in my mind and I read the book over a year ago ! ",0
"I was excited to read this book because so many people loved it . I wanted to love it I really did but something just fell flat . The story was good although I found the flashing back and forth distracting and Sara Gruen obviously did copious amounts of research but I just could n't get excited about it.The character of Marlena could have been a really interesting and multilayered person but instead she is really only presented as a delicate flower who loves animals married a psychopath and sometimes displays teenage acts of defiance . Why did Jacob love her so much ? There must have been more to her than that but the reader is never let in on that secret . It 's even more odd because the author is a woman . They had strong female personalities in the 1930s I 'm sure of it.As for Jacob I thought that he displayed a lot of the conflict and inner questioning that you like to see in a lead character and his development as he gets to know the people that work for the circus was enjoyable . His relationship with the animals was obviously meant to heal him after the death of his parents but again I felt like that connection was rushed and then brushed aside . His relationship with Rosie the gentle and abused Polish speaking well Polish understanding elephant was an excellent metaphor for his own gentle nature and his inability to stand up for himself and break free . Of course in the end everyone is free thanks to Rosie and we get the happy ending.I did not hate the book at all but I wanted more from it . I think if the author had been allowed to write about 100 pages more it could have been a great novel instead of just ok . The descriptions of the 1930s era circus and the care she took in researching every detail made the book very interesting . It 's certainly worth a read . ",2
"Given all of the fivestar reviews and the hype surrounding this book I simply had to review.The good The overall setting and tone of the book were spot on . I really felt the genuine desperation of the Prohibition and the Depression . The 1920s30s traveling circus was interesting and wellresearched . Also the passages in which Jacob is 90 or 93 years old were beautifully written and very believable.The notsogood The author often devoted long passages to the mundane and then just jumped over the parts of the story that a reader wants to spend time on such as key dialogue between the main characters which would provide the reader with their back stories and develop a genuine love storywhich brings me toThe bad the characters are for the most part onedimensional and the character dynamics and relationships are unrealized and unbelievable . At its core this is a romance and yet I never understood how and why the two characters fell in love . They meet and next thing I know they are in love . ",1
"I saw this book in the bookstore and it sounded very interesting so I got it out of the library . I was n't disappointed . It was very easy to read and flowed nicely . Very interesting and quirky characters which I liked . Rosie the elephant was a great character . I agree with one of the other reviewers who compared the book to Sophies Choice . I thought the same thing when we meet the ringmaster . I really enjoyed the book but I was disappointed that there were a couple of parts that were unnecessarily crude as opposed to necessarily crude ? . It 's like the female writer of the book had to prove that she could be as crude as any man . Other than that it was one of my favourite books this year . ",3
"I loved the story but disliked how explicit it was in places . Call me old fashioned but not to my taste especially in the printed word . If that does not bother you you will love the book . ",3
"This book was fantastic . I could hardly put it down . No it was n't terribly deep but it was a great lighter read . ",4
"I listened to Water for Elephants as an audiobook . The portrayal of old man Jacob by John Randolph Jones was spot on . The enactment of the young Jacob by David LeDoux was good but a little bit monotonous in tone . He did do a good job on the other characters ' voices making them sound different from Jacob . The book was wellwritten with excellent characters who all had distinct personalities and dialogue that rang true . I bought the depression era plight of a young veterinary student doubly shocked at losing his parents and then their home . This made a credible segue to his becoming the veterinarian for the Benzini Brothers circus . Ms. Gruen does a believable portrayal of the Depression era the working class and the animals in the menagerie . The story flows well but is a bit melodramatic to my taste in spots . The love story between Jacob and Marlena works but is a little long in development . At first I did not see the relevance of the old Jacob interludes in the story but they did lead to a sweet and appropriate ending to the book.I have one issue which maybe someone could answer . I do n't understand the relationship of the prologue to the rest of the book . The text of the prologue duplicates the climactic event of the book itself yet has a completely different outcome and one that contradicts what happened in real life . I do n't understand why there should be such a contradiction and it was n't explained by something like and then I woke up from the dream . Instead the prologue merely ends with in 70 years I never told a single soul or something like this . So why do we have a difference of fact between two parts of the book ? It is jarring and strange . I also note that in the movie the character Uncle Al was deleted when the screenplay was written . ",3
"I was compelled to finish the book and found the circus hx interesting.The story itself felt very Nicholas Sparkslike.So if you like his work I think you 'd like this book . The protagonist character did n't seem realhe was too good too kind too selfless . There were no real surprises about how the plot would unfold . But I 'm glad I read it and it was a good escape . ",2
"I found the subject matter of circus trains very interesting . Along with the difficult and dangerous life the performers and workers had . ",3
"This was a book that I truly did not think I 'd like . Not a big fan of circuses I just did n't think it would interest me . Boy was I ever wrong ! This book thrust me into its story from the very first page and left me wanting more . The ending is wonderful perfect and satisfying . While I am very leary of any book that contains abuse to animals I found that I could endure the occasional abuses described somehow . I was so completely enthralled by the characters of this book and could see the whole story in my mind 's eye as I read . The author does say in an interview that the elephant Rosie was based on a real elephant two actually she discovered when doing the research for this book . I often felt like I needed a shower while reading the book because it is so atmospheric and real that I felt like I 'd been riding on the train without a good wash ! At the same time I felt I was a resident of the nursing home depicted in the book and wanted to have a good meal myself . Excellent book one of the best reads of my adult life . It will definitely stay with me a long time . ",4
"Water for Elephants is a great read that is sure to please fans of every genre ! Come to Inkk reviews and check out our VIDEO REVIEW for Water for Elephantsclick Review Archives then scroll down to WATER FOR ELEPHANTS ! ",4
"Normally this type of book is n't something I would read but after receiving a few recommendations I gave it a shot . I am so glad that I did . What a great story ! You definitely get to feel an array of emotions reading this book . Anger hurt happiness . If you are n't sure you 'd enjoy this book I 'd give it a try . You wo n't be disappointed . ",4
"I 'm not one to read historical pieces mostly because I do n't think I 'll relate to the people and times but this book is an exception . An exceptional exception ! I loved Water for Elephants . Tragedy mystery adventure humor and romance this book has it all . This is the story of a young man who finds himself working as a veterinarian for a traveling circus during the Great Depression era but it 's really so much more . So step right up ladies and gentlemen and enjoy this masterpiece ! ",4
"For me this book reminded me of being a little kid . I could picture myself sitting at the foot of my grandfather 's bed as he told me stories of his youth and the adventures that came with it . I was instantly transported to the 1930 's and to the world of the traveling circus . The author wrote with such clarity and viviid realism that I was shocked when I later read that at the time she started writiing the novel she has never been to a circus . This novel is beautiful and moving and certainly one that I will pass along to others . ",4
"Great book I loved it and the way the author incorporated the old Jacob and the young Jacob was brilliant ",4
"This was a fast enjoyable read on many levels.Jacob narrates the story and we switch back and forth between his current age of ninety of ninety three and the seven years he spent working in the circus . In the beginning of the story I found switching between the present and past a bit jarring but I thought it worked out well in the end.There is a line in the book 'The whole thing 's illusion Jacob ' he says 'and there 's nothing wrong with that . It 's what people want from us . It 's what they expect ' . I thought this was a great way to summarize the story because it shows the illusion the circus performers put on but gave you behindthescenes details into everyday life in a circus and what it takes to create the illusion.Warnings There are several sex scenes which I did n't think were required to tell the story . Also there is a lot of what would be considered animal cruelty in today 's standards . Since this is set in 1930s I believe it is realistic to what circus animals probably endured . ",3
"I had heard so much talk about this book but I was n't that impressed or intrigued . It gave me a glimpse into how hard a life the circus folks had and gave me the feeling it was the place you ended up when you had no place else to go . Definitely took the glamour out of my fascination with circus ' . I am glad I read it it was n't a waste of time but it just was n't as good as I expected . ",2
"I was rather disappointed with the way some of the sordid details took away from an otherwise interesting story line . I really liked the backstage peeks into the real life of what being on the road or on the rails could be like . And the general story line was very interesting . Not totally my cup of tea but perchance my high expectations going in did n't help . Keep your expectations a bit lower & it may even be more enjoyable for you ! ! ! ",2
"This story feels magical while containing it 's fair share of hardhitting reality . It 's a depression era story of a lost soul joining a traveling American circus . It reads like a memoir of the story 's main character Jacob . The story begins in a modern day setting where you meet Jacob as an elderly man living in a retirement home.A circus is setting up just across the street from Jacob 's retirement home and the whole place is buzzing about it . It brings back Jacob 's memories of his time traveling around the country with the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth . As a young man he worked as their veterinarian.Jacob 's relationships with the animals in the circus as well as the crew members and performers are my favorite aspects of this novel . The author reveals that many of the most entertaining stories and plot twists concerning the animals were based on real occurrences . The author really did her homework and it shows . The story line in endearing and entertaining . ",4
"Maybe it was all the hype around this book when I read it with the movie just coming out but I was expecting it to be better . It was a decent book and I do n't regret reading it but it was missing something for me . I did n't really like the ending either . ",2
"Good read for when you are entertaining yourself on a rainy day . Enjoyed the book more so than the movie . ",3
"Water for Elephants had a slow start for me but I was soon dragged into the story full force . It is apparent that this is a fully researched tale by the author and you become truly immersed in the time period what it was like to be part of circus and just how greatly and entertaining these shows were at the time.As an employee at an independent resident home I greatly enjoyed the back and forth between the old and young Jacob . The situations the elder Jacob went through while at the nursing home were really poignant and beautifully written albeit sad . You really felt for Jacob and it was a bird'seyeview on what it is like to age as you feel the same mentally and yet your body betrays you no longer being able to keep up with your needs and desires.The characters were really fleshed out especially August . Even Rosie seemed like an actual person herself . The interactions of Jacob with the animals were really touching especially because a lot of it touched Jacob 's inner monologue about many things but also of his passion for taking care of these creatures.The relationship between Jacob and Marlena rang true for me and were a bit reminiscent of the two lead characters in Nicholas Sparks ' The Notebook but BETTER ! I absolutely adored the ending it was whimsical and inspiring . There is nothing better than finishing a story and feeling content with the journey you just undertook . You will most assuredly feel this as you complete this novel.I would definitely recommend this all encompassing story . It 's not a mere love story but the chronicle of one person 's life love and his insistence on not resigning himself to growing old . ",4
"I loved this book set during the depression in a third rate circus The Benizini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth . The book is told through the eyes of 90 or 93 year old Jacob Jankowski as he recounts the events of that fateful year of 1931.When Jacob Janowski 's parents are killed in a car accident just before his graduation from Cornell veterinary school he runs away and somehow ends up working for the Benzini Brothers circus after they learn he is almost a doctor . The harshness of both the ever encompassing depression and circus life is brought vividly to life . We meet the side show ` freaks ' the stars the roustabouts and rubes and come to care for many of them especially Walter the educated dwarf . The story centers on Jacob and his falling in love with the beautiful star of the equestrian show Marlena who is married to the questionably sane August who is the animal trainer . It also involves the wonderful elephant Rosie who is brought in as the star of the menagerie but seems to have her own ideas about that.The ending is incredibly poignant and brought a smile to my face as it brought the whole story full circle . I really loved this book . ",4
"I did n't think Id like the subject matter but I was wrong . The story and characters are so vividly portrayed that the story played out in my head with color and audio . ",4
"Gruen is a wonderful author who not only captures the history of the circus but also captivates the reader in following the life of Jacob from youth to old age and provides a spirit lifting ending one will not likely forget . ",4
"Never having been particularly interested in all things circusy I put this book back on the bookstore shelf more than once . But an Amazon review of another quite unrelated novel referenced this book so I picked up a copy . Really glad I did . This is a wellpaced novel that does n't fall into the trap of doubling as a documentary on the early twentieth century circus trade . It is engaging romantic with sufficient drama and excitement to keep the pages turning over well into the night . Maybe at times a little cute but a solid fourstar effort . ",3
"Water for Elephants is a wonderful book . The storyline is unique and held my attention so much I needed to read the entire book at one sitting . It is an excellent book for book club readers ! ",4
"Best novel I 've read in a VERY long time . One of the few books I 've ever read that I 'll pick up and read a second perhaps even third time . Such great character and plot development along with a few humorous and tragic surprises . You can tell the author did a lot of research on the subject of the circus . And the reflections of the 93 year old man are PRICELESS ! A must read for anyone wanting to read a fun story . ",4
"Not sure what else to say just a beautifully told story capturing the whole of the characters ' charm quirks and warts . ",4
"I read this book with my book club and we enjoyed it very much . Lots of discussion material and I watched the movie which was good as well . ",4
"While I would not recommend this book to a young reader due to a couple pretty explicate scenes I would recommend it to any adult who just loves a good book . Once I started reading it I could not put it down . I hesitated reading it because I did n't think that the subject matter would be interesting but I was so wrong . This is a wonderfully written book . ",4
"Very good read . Keeps you reading and learning about the circus trade as it wasis . Lots of human interest too . ",4
"Really one of the best book 's I 've read . You 'll remember this long after you 've finished it . Do yourself a favor and order it you wo n't be sorry . ",4
"Alternating between times prisoned in a nursing home 90something year old Jacob recalled his life in the circus.Life pretty much changed overnight for Jacob Jankowski . Jacob dropped out of veterinary school . He just had to take the last test before graduating . However his parents ' sudden death changed all that . Now Jacob could have gone back and finished the test . However he felt guilty once he learned that there were no money left from his parents because they spent all they had to finance Jacob 's schooling.By some strange turns of events Jacob found himself riding with a traveling circus one that aimed to be better than the Ringling Bros . It 's here that Jacob is made the circus veterinarian over the circus ' animals . However Jacob is falling for the JekyllHydeish ringmaster 's wife.I do n't know if it was a reading fluke or not but I just could n't get into the book at the beginning . I wanted to like the book because my friends were telling me how great it was . I just could n't get into it . After about 100 pages and days later it finally picked up for me.Overall the story was interesting as it was something that you do n't see often . Plus archived pictures at the end of some chapters made the book even more interesting . I became so engrossed in the story that it looked like Jacob 's adventures with the circus spanned over years when it actually spanned over weeks . So it was a good read but not one of my favorites . ",3
"My daughter has been asking me to read this book for years . I resisted because I read the synopsis and thought a story about a circus in the era of the great depression ? Nah . I finally downloaded it and gave it a go and could n't put the book down . Seriously this is one of the best books I 've read in years ! I felt like I was right there . The narrative shifts back and forth between old Jacob and young Jacob seamlessly . I strongly regret waiting so long to read this book . And for you NookKindle lovers this book is only $ 5 to download . I would have paid full price . It is a haunting story and often had me thinking of my own aging . What will it feel like to be inside a body that is old and does n't function like it used to yet the mind still feels young ? I ca n't wait for the movie to come out in April . ",4
"This book is in my top five . i loved the character and all his struggles i love how you can so easily fall into the character and see what he sees in the home and in the circus . ",4
"This book was fun . The old circus is always fascinating and fun.I read the book very quickly which is unusual for me . If you like fun easy books then this is a good one for you.But this book is not literature and will be forgotten soon and wo n't be read in 10 years . It does not compare with Amy Tan who has written literature that will probably continue to be read for a hundred years . ",2
"Great book . Love to read but am an impatient reader . If a book does n't 'grab ' me quickly first two or three pages I 'm likely going to put the book down and may not pick it up . This story reeled me in quickly and kept my interest and attention . ",4
"I like this book . To read through about the depression era and about the lives of people going through it trying to earn a living trying to survive is amazing to me . The train traveling circus of the day had to try really try to also just survive . And the bittersweet love story that is entertwined into this story I think is beautiful . Thanks Amazon . ",3
"I 'm torn on my opinion about this book which I just finished last night . I loved the parts where Jacob was old it successfully portrayed the anguish and confusion anyone would feel when their independence privacy and basically their rights are taken away from them . I really felt it . The story grabbed me right away and continued to be enjoyable and interesting through about half the book then it deteriorated a bit after that . All in all though I enjoyed the book and the characters and am not sorry I read it . Definitely easy reading.Laura ",2
"This book draws you in from the first line and does n't let you go until the last page . Perfect perfect perfect ! ! This is my favorite book and is the BEST book I have ever read ! ",4
"I hesitated to pick up New York Times Bestsellers because most of the time I do n't fully understand the hype around them either they 're just a mediocre book or they fall extremely short of the hype that surrounds it this was not the case with Water for Elephants . Sara Gruen literally places you in the middle of a 1920 's traveling circus and dose n't drop you off until the very last page . I felt like I was right along side Jacob and Marlena and the rest of the Characters in the novel.The story was breathtaking and captivating and the characters and even the animals were so easy to like and so different in their roles and I loved it . This is one of the first historical fiction novels i 've read in a long time at least that come to mind and although I was apprehensive to start this i 'm so happy I picked it up when I did . I 'm really looking forward to seeing the movie adaptation of this as it is currently in theaters now and as a true booklover must read the novel before I go see the movie adaptation of it ! ! I have high expectations for this film so we will see what I think but so far i 've heard good things.Water for Elephants is an absolutly delightful story it covers everything a truly remarkable novel should have love crime secrets drama etc . this book has it all ! flag ",4
"A pleasant quick read . The circus details were nicely researched and its full of colorful characters . I did however find the alternating time periods intrusive and the plot sadly predictable . I also wish the villain had been more complex although the author provides us with mental illness as an excuse it seemed too convenient and frankly not quite clinically credible . A sweet ending although perhaps a bit sentimental . All in all not an original book nor one that will stand the test of time in my opinion however for all that an agreeable way to spend the afternoon . ",2
"Sara Gruen spent months researching circuses that traveled by trains and they paid off in the realistic Water for Elephants that she turned into fiction . The novel begins with main character Jacob Jankowski a 93yearold man in a nursing home when the circus comes to town . This begins his flashback of his time with the Benzini Brother 's Most Spectacular Show on Earth in the summer of 1931.While it focuses on the cirucs the novel weaves back and forth between a 23yearold Jacob on the circus and presentday Jacob with his nursing home struggles.Jacob had never intended to end up on the circus but once he does he is caught in a whirlwind of romance and drama . He has to learn the ropes of a struggling circus that ca n't always afford to pay its employees . Each character has hisher own unique qualities that make each seem as real and relatable as the next . Even the circus 's animals take on personalities that make them seem real.After the great reviews I wanted to give it a shot and I had trouble putting it down . The novel has a little something for every kind of reader as it falls into multiple genres of mystery romance and adventure . Gruen continuously surprised me through the last page . Each page was as compelling as the next . I would absolutely recommend this novel to everyone . ",4
"As a former circus performer I really should have read Sara Gruen 's Water for Elephants when it came out in 2006 . As it turns out I just finished it and quite simply it 's fantastic . Set in both present time and the 1920 's it tells the tale of young Jacob Jankowski 's circus days how he stumbled upon the spectacle how he made himself useful and how he found true love . Told through flashbacks of himself at ninetyor ninety three a fact he keeps forgetting you see how the circus life effected him and what became of him after his years under the big top.After leaving Cornell Jacob made his way onto the Benzini Brothers most Spectacular Show on Earth a not as good as Ringling Brothers but still decent traveling circus . He became the show 's veterinarian watching over the lions chimps horses and of course elephant . There he meets a dazzling array of characters including Walter the show 's midget clown Earl the strong man Uncle Al the show 's ringmaster and owner August the moody and arrogant animal keeper and his wife Marlena the lovely horse tamer and elephant rider that Jacob falls for.Accompanied by archived photos from the Ringling Circus Museum the book accurately portrays the life of a traveling circus member riding the train daily going from city to city hoping the town is looking for an afternoon of entertainment . In a time when entertainment was scarce the circus really was a legendary spectacle . Money was tight and the sleeping quarters were tighter . The performers were treated like Gods but the workers were seen as slaves . But when you were living cent by cent it was a joband a good job at that.As a reader you 're wrapped up my Jacob 's tale following him through his four month stay with the Benzini Brothers . You cheer him on and fear for his life all at the same time . You become attached friends . And the ending leaves you satisfied fulfilled and content.Personally I was disappointed that they did n't concentrate more on the acts however that 's a small complaint from an otherwise fantastic read . Even for those who have no interest or knowledge of the circus lifestyle will get something out of it . Because at one time we 've all seen the show . We 've all seen the clowns the elephants and the acrobats . We 've all eaten the pop corn and cotton candy sold from the striped tents . And really at some point we 've all wanted to run away and join the circus . ",4
"I bought this book because it was rated so highly and it was a NaNoWriMo novel . Somehow I made it to the bit that describes the old man having a shower which is about a 13 the way through according to my Kindle progress bar . I do n't know how . I found it so incredibly vulgar that I just could n't keep going . I did n't even care enough about the characters or the story to skip to the last few pages to find out what happened . In fact I wish I could erase what I did read from my head and gain back the time I wasted reading it . ",0
"Oh how I loved this book ! The story is told by its main character Jacob who is now confined to a nursing home reminiscing about his time spent in the circus . It tells of Jacob 's life travelling in a circus during the Depression and of the harsh conditions for the workers in during this time . There are so many great characters in this novel that have great depth to them including Rosie the Elephant . This is much more than a novel about the circus it has a great story that everyone should do themselves a favour and read ! I 'm looking forward to seeing whether the movie can capture just what a truly captivating story this novel tells . Highly recommended . ",4
"This book was an absolutely fantastic read . It is delicious and complex and gritty with a fresh and intriguing storyline . The movie did not do it justice they took an intelligent Rrated book and turned it into a somewhat comedic PG13 movie . You should definitely read the book before you even THINK about renting or buying the movie . It will definitely be a reading experience you wo n't soon forget . ",4
"I bought a copy of this book at a local store . I found this story unique and adorable ! An elderly man tells you about his life once he joins the circus . You follow him through meeting the love of his life to being all alone . Amazing story ! So much better than the movie ! ",4
"This book pulled me in from page 1 and never let go.It is riveting.This book was recommended to me becasue my grandparents traveled the Carni and Vaudeville circuit during the depression.I would recommend this book to everyone.I would have plowed right thru if not for work and sleep.Great character development and fast paced.Worthwhile read ! Well written ! ",4
"I loved the book . A well written story about circus life during the great depression . Ca n't wait to see the movie . ",4
"I picked this novel up in the airport as I was waiting to get on my flight to Orlando mostly because it is coming out as a movie and I wanted to read it before seeing the movie . That 's my general rule after all . And I was sorely disappointed.In this historical novel Jacob Jankowski the protagonist has left Vetrinary school at Cornell after suffering the loss of his parents who have died in a tragic car accident . He learns fairly quickly that his father also a vet was heavily in debt and actually died owing money . So Jacob leaves school and his home and literally joins the circus . He travels cross country with the circus acting as the show 's vetrinarian and working under August the head trainer and Uncle Al the show 's ringleader . August is an interesting man alternately charming and brutal . He 's also married to the beautiful Marlena a performer that Jacob forms a special bond with . This novel is about Jacob 's relationship with Marlena with the new elephant Rosie and with Uncle Al.There are definitely several themes that are prevalent in this novel which are super easy to pick out . Water is for cleansing for instance and the train tracks are for choosing a life path.I was not impressed by this book at all . The themes were easy to spot and the ending was just as easy to spot . The characters were shallow and one dimensional and I found myself annoyed with them more often than I was intrigued by them . I just did n't really like it I kept expecting it to get better and it did n't . It was a complete and utter failure . ",1
"I have never been a fan of the circus but I do enjoy historical fiction so I gave this one a try . I was skeptical at best when starting . The story is mildly interesting entertainingand entirely predictable . The characters were shallow not well developed but the story moves along quickly enough so this is not a big distraction . An earlier reveiwer summarized the book as melodramatic and I completely agree . It is like popcorn light fluffly easy to digest and quickly forgotten . Not a bad way to spend a rainy weekend if there is nothiing on TV . ",2
"I just finished this book and oh my word what a fun very quick read The story was wonderful and I loved the back and forth from the old Jacob to the young Jacob the the past reality to the current reality.The detail of the writing was so descriptive that I felt like I was in the hobo city or seeing the high trestle that Walter & Camel were thrown off of . It was just an amazing story I 'd suggest it to anyone at any age . ",4
"This book will not change your life . You will know everything that is going to happen . I learned a bit about early circus life . I learned a bit about how Depression impacted families and choices . The best part was the view from the patient on life in a nursing home . Other than that it was entirely pure pleasure.I do n't even know exactly why I like this book so much it was such an easy read it almost felt like a Danielle Steele novel but there was more to it it truly felt like drinking a warm cup of cocoa on a cold night.I read the negative reviews because I could n't figure out how someone could not like this book.If you are looking for a life altering literary experience this is n't it . If you are looking for a nice summer read that is a bit more substantial than chick lit this is a good choice . We read it in our book group and to be honest there was n't a lot to discuss despite the controversial topic of circuses and nursing homes . It was more of a love fest of how nicely the book was written.I recommend it . ",4
"Water for Elephants captures your heart from page one and you will not want this wonderful book to end ! Wonderful flowing writing that brings the characters alive ! You will cry laugh and cheer Rosie the Elephant at the end ! If I could give this book 10 stars I would . It would have to be rated in my top 10 favorite books ever read . ",4
"I absolutely loved this book . The descriptions of the circus the towns and the train travel with all the animals seemed so authentic . However I thought that canceling several shows and rushing west to buy an elephant and book someone for a sideshow seemed to be stretching things a bit . The expenses to feed all the animals and the employees would have been huge . I kept thinking this would have been handled by having either Big Al or one of his managers travel alone and make the transaction while the show went on back East . Other than that part though I was completely drawn in . I thought Jacob and Marlena made a wonderful couple . Marlena by the time she met Jacob already needed rescuing . And Jacob was a gentleman who responded not only to her beauty and talent but to her need for rescue . It 's not surprising to me that they quickly fell for each other . My other favorite characters were Walter a dwarf and Rosie the elephant.The circus part of the book was set in 1931 a time when people would take just about any job and put up with a lot of abuse to keep it if they had to . This helped to make some of the events more interesting and believable . The rest of the story is told by the 93yearold Jacob and the author did a superb job of portraying the world from the point of view of someone who 's in a care center and is n't always allowed to make his own choices . The switches back and forth between the two Jacobs were flawless and really help make the story . The ending was perfect exactly what I would have wished for Jacob . Highly recommended . ",4
"The book was well researched and had an interesting plot . I would recommend it . ",3
"Ever want to run away and join a circus ? Gruen brings her readers into this mysterious world and introduces them to unforgettable characters . Run away with her . ",4
"If you 're looking for a book that 's entertaining and different Water for Elephants is perfect . The novel is about Jacob a 93 year old man living in a nursing home evaluating his present condtion and reflecting on his past . Through flashback he tells of his experiences as a caretaker and sometimes veterinarian of the animals of the Benzeni Brothers Circus . There is adventure suspense murder and even a love story . While it is fiction Gruen does an excellent job of researching the history of the circus which results in an interesting and insightful look into what it means to be a part of a traveling circus . ",4
"The best book I 've read in yearsa must read for all ! ! ! ! ! Enjoyed the happy ending so rear these days ",4
"This is one of the best books I 've read in years . It was incredibly refreshing . I could smell the animals and the food and I could visualize everything so easily . Jacob was fascinating and courageous . I wept for him and I feared for him . The circus came alive for me and what an ending ! ! ! Do n't miss this fantastic read . ",4
"Water for ElephantsSara GruenA 90yearold manor is he 93 ? narrates the story of his one summer as a veterinarian with the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth during the summer of 1931 in Depressionera America . Jacob Jankowski resides in an assisted living home with other elderly people many of whom require more medical attention than he . He is quite mentally astute for his age yet because of his age most of the people in charge of the facility treat him as mentally incompetent all but Rosemary a fortysevenyearold nurse who treats him and the rest of the patientsresidents with the loving care dignity and respect they deserve as human beings . But she is moving away and will be quitting the facility which in the end leads to Jacob 's decision to continue his lifewhat little he may have leftin dignity.There is a circus that has come to town . It is so close to the facility that the big tent and other goings on can be observed from the window . All of the old people reminisce about their experiences in their youth going to the circus . One old man and a newcomer to the home Mr. Joseph McGuinty who is considerably younger than Jacob brags about having worked in a circus carrying water for elephants . Jacob becomes upset because he knows Mr. McGuinty is lying to attract the attention of the other residents and the memories of the truth of his past life are triggered.Flashback to young Jacob Jankowski a veterinary student at Cornell University in his last year ! Just before he is scheduled to take his final exams after which he will graduate and receive his degree both his parents are killed in an automobile accident . After their burial and after learning the truth of his financial situation Jacob is unable to focus . He leaves the exam room and leaves Cornell . Distraught he leaves with only the clothes on his back and no money in his pocket.Because of the Depression people were unable to pay for his father 's services and his father also a veterinarian worked for people even though they could not pay him taking whatever they could give himeggs chickens whatever they had . Therefore his parents had nothing to leave their son but debts . To pay his tuition the house had been mortgaged.So not being able to focus he leaves without ever putting pen to paper . Without aim or destination he walks and soon finds himself beside the railroad tracks when along comes a train . Like a hobo he hops the train with no idea where he is going . He soon learns this is a circus train and is not tossed off it because the Benzini Brothers whose circus it is discover he is a veterinarian and his services are badly needed.Working as a veterinarian that summer leads to all kinds of experiences tantamount among them which are falling in love getting married and eventually working with the circus 's one elephant.After his summer with the Benzini Brothers he is hired by Ringling Brothers . He along with his wife and his growing family spends seven years as a circus veterinarian . He then becomes the veterinarian for the Brookfield Zoo in Chicago . His seven years experience with exotic animals and his degree in addition to bringing an elephant with him insures him the job when the former vet suddenly dies.Jacob ninety years oldor is he 93 ? he asks himself recognizing that his old age has caused some memory lossstruggles to hold onto his humanity and his dignity as long as he can . It is he who in his reminiscences about his circus life his friendships and his deep love for his wife narrates the story . The reader falls in love with Jacob and develops an even greater love and respect for old folks . Sara Gruen 's novel awakens the reader to the often mistreatment of and disrespect for the elderly evoking empathy in their cause . Especially hurtful is seeing how their own families their own children mistreat them or forget about them . Old people are still human beings . In many cases their bodies may be broken their hands and fingers gnarled but in all cases there is a brain inside their heads as Jacob proves . In having Jacob tell his story in Water for Elephants the author informs us of this and reminds us of the fact that we will grow old someday . At the same time Sara Gruen affords us a moving and delightful readso do not be misled by the title . ",4
"Where to even start with a review of this book There are over 2600 reviews already and I doubt I 'll be able to add anything new or groundbreaking . My mom and my friend have been trying to get me to read Water For Elephants for the past couple of years but I 've resisted . I did n't want to read this book for a few reasons namely the subject matter a traveling circus did n't really excite me the idea of an old man telling the story in a sort of flashback manner reminded me too much of The Notebook of which I only saw the movie and most of all I did n't want to read this story because I absolutely adore animals and I knew there would be parts about abuse that would be difficult for me to read . But now that the movie has come out I knew it was time to give it a go . Books are always so much better than movies and I wanted to check this novel off my list before it possibly became tainted by Robert Pattinson 's portrayal . just in case . If like me you also have these reservations do n't let them stop you . Yes the story is rather sad in parts and it will make your heart break but it 's so much more . It took me a while to really get in to the story but I absolutely tore through the last 200 or so pages . It 's not so much a love story as it is a life story.You can really tell that the author did her homework . There are vivid graphic descriptions of everything and you feel like you 're right there with these characters . The true mark of a good writer at least for me is when they can create characters that you hate and abhor so much they can actually make your skin crawl even after you 've read the last page . This author did that and with more than one character.Overall it was a fantastic story and I highly recommend it ! ",4
"I read this book before the movie had ever been filmed and despite the movie being a fail especially after reading the book it is still one of my favorite books . It is so well written and every single detail keeps you wanting more . I could not put this book down and it is such a shame the movie did n't depict the book the way it should have . This is truly a classic and a must read . ",4
"One of my favorite books now . I devoured this book . Easy read and gets you hooked right away . I love historical fiction and now am reading all kinds of things about the circus during the early mid 20th century . ",4
"The book was very well written and different from most books I have read . I would recommend it ! ",3
"A wonderful Must Read Book an insight into a lost era . The Author is a master of the written work . The end is a tear jerk er and the story is a mover . Best of reading . ",4
"This book was a SPLENDID completely absorbing read ! I kept thinking I was reading a screenplay although this did n't bother me I did note it.Cornelleducated Jacob Jankowski looks back upon and retells the story of what became his unlikely life as a Circus Veterinarian . Sara Gruen makes the characters jump off the page in her writing . There are villians heroes sequined angels kindhearted drunks big hearted dwarves and smart quirky animals . In all a virtual smorgasboard of entertainment that transports you to another fascinating day and time . Set during Prohibition the circus train and its darkfrightening contents rumble from town to town holding the lives of hundreds of men and us readers in the balance ! The only criticism I have and this is very minor is that I found myself skipreading over the parts about Jacob in the nursing home . While I valued being able to get this perspective and see that just because you are old and it may LOOK like you do n't have all your faculties you really do I just could n't stand but to get back to the main story . I was chomping at the bit.Loved the book . Loved the ending . Sad when it ended . I should have made it last longer . Lots of fun ! ",4
"This is a light easy read that will transport you . A very enjoyable read . I tried reading other Sara Gruen books but they are not in the same league as Water for Elephants . ",4
"I had a good time reading this book even if it was n't one of the best I read . The story is nice and entertaining . ",3
"Wonderful story telling . Easy read.Tells Jacob 's story in two threads as a 93 year old living out his days in a nursing home struggling to maintain his sense of self and dignity . as he starts his adult life which begins as a graduating animal vet but veers off instead as a lost soul who happens to fall into joining up with a traintraveling part of a Ringling Bros wannabe second rate circus in the 1930 's America.You meet memorable characters in both story lines but the circus part is the focus of the book . the hard bitten owner Uncle Al whose always just one step ahead of the law the paranoid schizophrenic ring master August his young pretty wife Marlena who performs a horse act Kinko the dwarf clown and his beloved terrier dog many others who range from roustabouts tent builders animal caretakers to hoochy cooch ladies strong armed men who bully the other staff to keep order cooks candy vendors etc.In the midst of this are the menagerie including a chimp llamas a panther a lion horses camels zebras and Rosie the elephant who herself is almost a separate story line.I got swept up into this book pretty rapidly and stayed buried in it up to the end which is both horrific and magical . ",3
"One of the best books I have ever read . The storyline and characters keep you captivated . I highly recommend it ! ",4
"Water for Elephants is the first book in a long time to allow a reader to savor the pages while thirst for the next . What more could you want out of a book ? ? ? THe story revolves around the main character Jacob Jankowski and a part of his young adulthood . During this period of time Jacob must fend for himself as he migrated from what he believed would be a promised and lucrative life to a life of uncertainly and of poverty.Jacob stumbles into a lifestyle within and revolving around work in a traveling circus during the Great Depression era in the United States.Sara Gruen 's writing brings alive every event and character very vividly the setting simply demands only her very apt and transporting descriptions.Sara Gruen does transport the reader the captivating read that feels as if you are just plunked down in the middle of Jacob 's life . The reader is absolutely the quintessential fly on the wall.We not only observe but feel Jacob 's pain struggles anxiety happiness discomfort and grief . She has managed to include the reader in her words.I enjoyed my role as a reader and can only hope that Gruen 's other titles enable me to be transported yet again to another world that only Gruen can create . ",3
"A+ in my opinion this is the story of circus life in 1931 two years after the beginning of the Great Depression . Jacob has just lost both of his parents several days before his final exams to become a veterinarian . When he then tries to take his exams he freezes and walks out of the room thereby not getting his degree but still having his education . He almost accidentally falls into a job with a traveling circus . It 's a rough and uncertain life but he comes to love and care for the animals . On the other hand he does n't do so well with some of the people . From the author 's notes I would say this is a pretty good retelling of what actually happened between peoplepeople and peopleanimals although this is a fictional work . I suggest you come out of your box as I did with this book and read something other than your usual norm be it mysteries romances or science fiction . Oh and you will love Rosie ! ",4
"Loved this book . It was easy reading even though it jumped from present to the past . Made you think you were right there with him working in a circus . ",4
"Liked it . already watched the moviebut friends were reading it . So gave it a try like always book so much better than the movie ",3
"I guess my age 82 allowed me to relate to many aspects of the story . It was well written and believable ",4
"Was glad that I read this way before all they hype and the movie . The behind the scenes of the circus life was fascinating reading . To me the love story was a back drop to the sordid story of the circus . ",3
"I was n't sure about this circus and elephants and all . I was afraid it was going to be about animal abuse and very sad . Well there is that but it 's so much more than that . You 'll be transported to a different time and a location most of us will never experience the backdoor view of a circus . Each character is so real I felt I could regonize them . And although I was n't even around when the story took place at least the early part I could picture everything right down to the smells and sounds ! The author has a terrific grasp of aging as well . Sympathetic but not syrupy . The aged Jacob is quite a character as he struggles with the indignities associated with 'assisted ' living and the recollections of a past recollections that he was just now ready to reveal at age 90 or was that 93 ? ",4
"I 've been seeing this book for years at book stores and amazon website but for some reason I was n't interested . The idea of a novel that takes place in a circus did n't seem exciting to me . Then the kindle version of the book is offered with a great price and I reluctantly buy it and even more reluctantly read it . What a surprise I really enjoyed it and could n't put it down . The main character Jacob is brilliant especially at old age . I learned a lot about circus life and people . I thought the ending was marvelous . Now I have to watch the movie and see how it compares to the novel . Very enjoyable read and highly recommended . ",3
"Great read ! Heard the movie was coming out for this book so I wanted to read it first . It 's a fast read and I really enjoyed it . Hope the movie is as great as the book is . ",4
"I started this book because it was affordable and I was thinking about seeing the movie . What a great surprise ! This book was funny sad and totally caught me I could not read fast enough . NOW I will see the movie . ",4
"WE was terrific out of the starting blocks vivid and wellresearched replete with interesting characters . Along the way though it increasingly took on the feel of a creative writing exercise ever lighter on research weaker on character development and thinner on plot . In the end I found WE disappointing . Like many historical novels by contemporary young authors WE is only shallowly situated in its particular historical context depression era circus . Every now and then the author tosses in a cliched reference to food lines to remind the reader of the historical moment otherwise nothing to suggest the landscape literal and figurative through which the Benzini Brothers train chugs ever onwards . I emerged from WE with far less of a feel for circuses or society in the 1930s or for aging and the elderly today than I should have . WE reads like an entertaining short story stretched to the breaking point . There just is n't enough 'there ' there ",2
"I loved this book and ca n't believe I did n't read it until now ! I laughed out loud and had moments I wanted to cry . I loved the surprising end and recommend this book to anyone ! I even went out and bought it for my mom while I was still reading it on my Kindle ! ",4
"I did n't get into the characters at all I skipped the last 100 pages and read the last chapter . ",0
"I recently finished reading Water for Elephants . The historical elements in this novel were carefully researched which made for a thrilling book . I loved the way the story was told by an elderly man living in a nursing home and it bounced back and forth between timelines . You fell in love with the grumpy man and you think about what the elderly actually feel like when they are forced to live in places like this . His story is touching and you really get to know all of the characters . The elephant is a sweetheart and it 's amazing how smart she is . Great book and look forward to seeing the movie to see how well it was done . ",4
"Fell in love with the book from page one . The Author does a great job of developing the characters . She also made me fall in love with Edward Cullen Jacob all over again.. Definitely recommend this book . ",4
"after a visit to the ringling circus in sarasotai realized what a good book this is.ican appreciate the fine hardworking performing community.this is a must read for circus lovers . ",2
"Water For Elephants paints a runaway 's story of joining the circus interspersed with an old man 's sad realities . Bringing to life colorful characters that abound in the time of the train circus Gruen strikes a balance between the despondency of the 1930s and the timelessness of hope and longing both in the past and present . An easy comingofage mustread to curl up by the fire with ! I ca n't say I 'm surprised that the book is being turned into a movie though it 'll be interesting to see if the movie manages to capture the poignancy of the old man 's recollections ",3
"I could n't wait to read and this book did n't disappoint . The circus was an incredibly vivid background as well as the life of Jacob as a senior in an old home . The novel was wellresearched and interesting ! The love affair was intense and problematic . My bookclub of women 3080+ all loved this book . ",4
"I really enjoyed the book . It was very easy to read and you ca n't put it down once you are started . ",4
"What kid has n't wanted to run away to the circus ? I wanted to be an acrobat at one point swigging around high up in the sky . I do n't think I ever really considered the repercussions of such a life thoughalways moving around having to live with who you work with weather you like it or not constant worknow it sounds more hard than fun to me.But Jacob Jankowski never really had a choice in the matter . Emotionally wrecked and financially bereft when his parents die in the great depression Jacob hops on a train and ends up in the middle of the Benzini Brothers most spectacular show on earth . With his status as a not graduated but Cornell trained Vet Jacob is hired on to see to the shows animals.Its decent work but hard . And Jacob 's boss August only makes it harder with his mercurial temperament and his very beautiful wife one of the circuses star performerswho might like Jacob a little too much . But it 's an arrangement Joseph can live withuntil Rosie comes along.Every circus needs an elephant right ? And Rosie becomes Jacob 's . As circus life becomes more and more perilousCan Jacob get out with his friends animals and possible love of his life alive and intact ? Come to the show and find out ? Water for Elephants is a fantastic little gem of a book . The writing is marvelous engaging funny sadit 's perfect really except for one thing . And how could one fail to read the book after reading the prolog ? There is no doubt this is an author to watch because she is going places ! Just one problemthe disease that August is eventually unveiled as having is completely wrong for the symptoms he was exhibiting . I doubt the author really researched it or she would know that . It did n't bother me too much but for people who are suffering from or love those who really are paranoid schizophrenic it could be seen as stupid and offensive.But still five stars.So step right up folks ! Admission for this five star show is only the price of a good book . ",4
"What a good book characters were great ! . It was a good read ! Now I am going to rent the movie ! ",4
"A very wellwritten piece of literary fiction that is not easily forgotten . I picked up the novel because of its great reviews and my disdain for the circus and inhumane treatment of circus animals but ended up loving it because of a very engaging plot and my great affection for the main character in particular . This novel is SO much more than a great story of Depressionera circus workers and performers that simply lays the very interesting foundation . The ending was the best I 've read in a long time and brought the novel full circle . I look forward to more books by Sara Gruen ! ",4
"I had no desire whatsoever to read this book until I saw a trailer for the movie . The tailer caught my eye and since books are always better then the movie I took a chance and found that I thought it was a great story . The story felt real . It 's a very believeable read and I liked that it was n't sugar coated . It held my interest and taught me a lot about circus life in that time period . The ending completely caught me off guard . Water for Elephants is a story that will stay with me forever . I highly recommend it to anyone who enjoys reading ! ",3
"Jacob Jankowski is 90 or 93 years old he ca n't remember living in curmudgeonly isolation in a nursing home where he reminisces and dreams of a time in his youth when he was an uncertified vet with the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth traveling circus in the 1930s . Uncle Al the unscrupulous and chiseling owner runs a tight train . He has thugs who throw nonproductive and troublemaking employees off the train to their deaths in a practice known as redlighting . He also buys downandout circuses and in one such act acquires Rosie the Polish speaking elephant who is smarter than anyone but Jacob knows.Jacob is the only person in the book who has a handle on a moral compass and as his reward he spends most of the novel beaten broken concussed bleeding swollen and hung over . He is the selfappointed Protector of the Downtrodden who makes a dangerous mistake he falls in love with Marlena an animal act performer who is married to the brutal August the menagerie supervisor . His cruelty to animals and his violence are probably due to paranoid schizophrenia . It is enough that he terrorizes everyone in his life and every animal too.Jacob is forced to bunk in the horse car with the Shakespearereading Walter aka Kinko a dwarf who is devoted to the Jack Russell terrier that is part of his act . As the train carries the circus across the US the lives of the performers and workers intertwine relationships and loyalties are tested and Jacob becomes a hero through simple humanity to Camel a drunken laborer who is poisoned by drinking Jamaica ginger.The best scene in the entire novel is the descriptive passage of Marlena performing with her horse team and with Rosie the elephant in her pink sequined costume . Gruen manages to humanize people who really seem to be populating a fairy tale for adults . Not a great book but a diverting one . Gruen seems to specialize in animal stories . ",3
"This book is a wonderful tale of life and of growing old . It is touching and heart warming on so many different levels . If you are ready to experience a full range of emotions from laughter to anger from fear to surprise this book will touch them all.Linda C. WrightAuthor One Clown ShortOne Clown Short ",4
"GOOD STORY NOT GREAT BUT FUN TO READ . I HAD HEARD IT WAS SO GREAT.SO WAS A BIT DISAPPOINTED . BUT GLAD I READ THE BOOK ",3
"I liked the fact that the author kept going from the present to the past at least you knew he was not redlighted from the train . This book was a total insite int circus life I 'm sure most of us did n't know Best part it had a happy ending ! ",4
"At times brutal and sad at times hilariously funny it was a terrific book and a fun book to read . I have recommended it to all my friends . The book had me captured within the first page and I did n't put it down until I was forced to or until I got to the end.If you 're looking for something that you can read fairly quickly and be greatly entertained you need to read this book . It 's more than well worth the time . ",4
"Just finish reading this last night around 1 A.M.Good BookOne of those stories told by going back and forth between past and present . I love books written that way.Anyway the story is about a young veterinary student who falls into terrible misfortune and with few options joins a travelling circus The unscrupulous Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth.Time period is in the 1920 's or 30 's during The Great Depression . Narrated by an old man 90 or 93 he says . Who is unhappily living out his days at a nursing home . Ah but he was n't always an old man.The book appears to have been carefully researched and many of the characters and incidents are based on actual people animals and or occurrences in circus of times past.At times funny sad heartbreaking yet hopeful this one will stay with me for a long while . I highly recommend it . ",4
"This is a best seller and has been lauded by many as an accurate portrayal of circus life in the 1930s . Perhaps this is true.I loved the narrator an elderly gentleman who is living in a nursing home . I related to his upsets about the way he is being treated and understood his desire to get himself to the circus which has pitched its tent across the street from the home . I felt empathy of this old man and felt the several chapters relating to his present life were done well.Through his voice we learn his story in flashback and most of the book takes place in this circus in the 1920s when the old man was young . As the freshfaced new kid he 's a stereotype . And so is the woman he falls in love with . Problem is that she 's married to the ringmaster . How this all turns out is mildly interesting especially the parts about the animals but I kept hoping the book would get better and I would feel some empathy for someone.Therefore while this book has a few good moments I ca n't even give it a lukewarm recommendation . ",1
"While I enjoyed the movie there was no comparison to the book by Sara Gruen . I did n't want this book to end ",4
"This author did his research blending the history of the american circus with his fictional characters . I enjoyed this book . ",3
"I am going to make this short and sweet . I bought this for the kindle and really enjoyed it . If you are looking for an interesting book this is a good choice . Read it before the movie comes out ",4
"Absolutely the best most wonderful book . I 'd highly recommend it . The story is wonderful and the ending is everything you 'd want it to be.I 'm telling everyone I know to read this book ! ",4
"This is a very good book . It may be slightly over hyped but it certainly deserves of most of the praise it 's receiving . Water for Elephants is a moving tale about circus life during the depression era with quirky characters and complex emotions underlying the character 's actions . It 's uniquely told from the perspective of one character at two different stages of his life Jacob at 20 and again when he was 93 and living in a nursing home . The story moves seamlessly between these two timelines and although I was more intrigued by the introspective old Jacob the complexity and volatility of young Jacob also captured my attention just on a different more concrete level . The book touches on what 's important at different phases of life . The story is sweet tragic and entertaining and the emotions that surface range from sad and lonely to happy and in love . In short the story is haunting and brings to light the strong bond that develops between man and animal and shows the true meaning of friendship . An excellent selection for those who enjoy a good character driven story . ",3
"I enjoyed this book . While at times I skimmed through quickly over the more violent parts the book as a whole was very satisfying . The technique of telling the story of the past while relating the events of the present was interesting too . I liked the ending . ",4
"This is one of the best books I 've read in years . It had excellent character development and I had to keep reminding myself that it was fiction . Since hearing about the dreadful Hartford circus fire from my mother who had friends perish I have always found it to be such an interesting topic . This bridged the gap from story to reality by referencing some of the real aspects of the circus by utilizing that backdrop with an interesting storyline . I can not wait until the next book ! ",4
"Well written and researched the author descriptions are vivid and keep the reader unable to put it down . Highly recommended . ",4
"It took me a couple of chapters to get into this book . Having borrowed the book at the recommendation of a friend I had no preconceptions . I started reading and wondered if it was a dreary book about life in a nursing facility . When my friend asked about returning the book I ordered an audio version so that I would not have to admit I could not get interested in the story . I can almost always get through an audio book on my commutes to work . The book quickly became an engrossing story . I was cheering for the animals ! The mal treatment some of them received was very hard listening . The one criticism I had was Jacob 's naivete . Could he not figure out he was putting his friend 's and his own life in danger ? I would have found him more attractive had he been more discerning . As it was I would not have been surprised had Marlena really not been attracted to him . Also I wondered if a talented circus performer such as Marlena was would not have had to start very young instead of at the age of 17 when she left home and married August . The ending ? for the circus it was terrific ! ! But for Jacob at 93 found it less than realistic ! ",3
"This audiobook was so well done ! Two different readers provide for the voices of the man at 93 living in a rest home and his 23 year old self in memory . Alternate chapters keep the reader torn between hearing the story of Jacob and his experiences with a circus during the depression and his later self coping with another type of depression as he deals with a worn out body and his limited life as he waits to die . Anyone with compassion for older people will find this story heart wrenching and enlightening at the same time . Excellent ! ",4
"This was a really good book with a suprise ending . A little different from the kind of book I usually read . I have given away a couple of copies and I 've recommended it to lots of other friends.The story is about the early days working for the circus . ",4
"This delightful novel set in a circus is worth the read . I was put off by the title for the longest time and when I finally realized it was about a circus I picked it up . Boy am I glad . The movie will be out later this year so be sure to read the novel first . You will be glad you did . ",4
"Very good book about a different subject but takes a little time to get into . I would read it again ! ",3
"I loved this book . I read it before the movie came out still have not seen the movie becasue I do n't want to ruin such a good book . Very sweet . ",4
"Gruen has such an elegant and inviting writing style that you ca n't help but get sucked into this story from the getgo . While I loved how she developed her characters especially oldman Jacob the ending was weak and did n't live up to the buildup throughout the book . ",3
"A story of circus life was not especially enticing but my book club was reading this novel . I must say that I thoroughly enjoyed the narrative . There is a little bit of something for everyone . Disappointment joy romance a view of youth and of old age . Take a flyer and buy this book if you want a well written escape ! Thanks ! ",4
"The last novel I read and reviewed was also about animals but this could not be more different and after struggling to get into the last one I loved this from the minute I picked it up and found it to be an exceptional read . The authors love of animals and the tremendous research she did for this novel make it not only a fascinating portrayal of life ugly and vibrant in the American circus of the 1930 's but a beautiful and tender love story . I had never even heard of circus trains until I read this either and learning a little something when I read also appeals to me.The title had been on my wishlist for awhile so I was delighted to obtain a copy recently and wanted to get on with reading so that I can see the film which has been recommended to me.Since seeing elephants up close in Thailand I also have more understanding of just how intelligent they are . Wonderful creatures which will treat humans well if they are given the respect they deserve . Sara Gruen portrays the nature of the elephant perfectly for me Rosie was the real protagonist of the novel . The novel is told as two separate but connected stories as well as being immersed in the circus world we are also given an inside view of a home for the elderly where the hero of the story Jacob is now living . Again the author has done her research as the scenes in the nursing home were poignant and all too familiar to me in many ways.When the novel starts Jacob Jankowski is in his nineties and living in a nursing home and the imminent arrival of the circus in town revives some very stirring memories for the old man and it is these that are told in the other storyline.It is the American Depression and when Jacob 's parents die while he is studying veterinary science at university he discovers that they were in dire financial difficulties and he can not even afford to complete his studies . Confused and bewildered with no plans for his future he finds himself hitching a ride on a circus train and in that moment his whole life changes . By the following morning he finds himself working for the travelling circus and by that evening he has met and fallen for the woman who will for evermore be the love of his life . Marlena the star performer however the love should remain unrequited as she is married to August the strangely mad animal trainer . Of course it is not long either before he also meets my particular favourite Rosie the elephant . Whilst struggling to survive in the world of this second rate travelling circus this young couples love overcomes obstacles that you can not begin to imagine.The two stories are ultimately woven together but to find out just how you will have to read for yourself . I highly recommend you read this if you have not already done so . I think most avid readers will find something they like about this one . ",4
"The book is very accurate in depicting life in the great depression . I enjoyed the themes that were explored in the tale . Good read . ",4
"this is easily the best book I 've ever read and I 've read thousands of books ! You understand and get completely lost in the lives of these characters . it 's an easy read and so easy to get lost in that you could easily forget your family unless they start screaming for food ! lol . this was definitely a worthy book to read no matter what type of books your into . ",4
"What a wonderful read ! Sara Gruen draws you in immediately and keeps you engaged the entire book . A talented writer and a wonderful story with characters that truly come to life ! ",4
"This is not normally the kind of book I would read . I knew going in that it was going to be gritty and depressing what a shame it would have been If I kept letting that stop from reading this masterpeice . It is going to be a while before I find another book as enchanting as this one . I highly suggest you to give it a try I think it will be well worth it . ",4
"This book will be one I read again and again . I have suggested it to many friends and they have all told me it 's a new favorite to add to thier lists too . ",4
"This book arrived in good time in good condition . I love this story and could n't put it down until I finished reading it ",4
"What a terrific read ! Water for Elephants has been lauded as a great pick for summer but this book is so much more . It has a depth and a substance to it that you do n't usually find in your typical beach read . It 's obvious that the author did her research into the time period postDepression America and the subject matter traveling circuses . According to the author 's note at the end of the book many of the compelling anecdotes in the story were based upon real events culled from the diaries and personal histories of oldtime circus performers . As a result Water for Elephants is a novel that boasts the rare combination of being both entertaining and informative.The main character is a cantankerous stillsharp 93yearold man and his frustration at being trapped in an old man 's body is palpable . The story of his incredible life and adventures with the Benzini Brothers circus unfolds in a way that is emotionally wrenching and yet flashes of good humor pervade throughout . The characters are richly drawn and even the animals are given complex personalities that make them a pivotal part of the story . There is something in the novel for everyone it is equal parts adventure mystery fictional memoir love story and historical account.I highly recommend this book ! ",4
"A feast for the literary senses Water for Elephants makes you feel the characters ' hopes fears and dreams . Highly recommend ! ",4
"This book was very good . I liked reading from both ages of the main character . The ending was more of a surprise since from the first page I thought it would end completely different ! ! ! ",3
"I wanted to read the book before I saw the movie . Now that I have I 'm not sure the movie would do it justice . It took place in a time I could n't imagine and they lived a life I know nothing about . It was really interesting . ",3
"Old timey Circus stories are so interesting ! I loved going as a kid but I love hearing about the other side of the ring even more . Gary Jennings is an author that does an amazing job of researching and writing about post civil war circus life so check him out Spangle but Water for Elephants is an engaging interesting horrifying and a ca n't put it down read for sure . I highly recommend ! ",4
"What a great book . I am so glad I read a review on this book in the newspaper . I could not put this book down I grew so attached to the characters I did not want to finish the last chapter . Read this book You will love it ! ",4
"The historical story was interesting and kept my attention even though I think TOO MANY people here are giving Ms. Gruen too much credit . Personally I do n't think she used enough historical fact and instead relied on a very formulaic plotline that was very predictable i.e . the love relationship the MC and head of the animals will be foiled in the end and the preposterous ending where our dear wonderful elephant kills the cruel animal director . Too contrived for me.I can understand the popularity of this book . I can not understand why it 's a runaway bestseller . ",2
"Picked up this book to read based on the fact it was a local Book Club 's Selection . Immediately was drawn into it and read it in a day . Book is 331 pages and for me it read quickly.My opinion the book is that it is thought provoking and also educational communicated through the day to day thoughts of a man now facing the day to day realities and drawbacks of living in an Assisted Living facility.Gruen is able to effectively weave a lot of bittersweet humor into her character and has also imparted quite a bit of history of the period of the Great Depression and also circus life.Read thru the ratings that were less than 3 star guess it goes to show we all have different tastes . The reviewer who stessed going back to the old classics made me remember dry horrible rambling selections that to this day I do not value.Water for Elephants goes beyond boy meets girl falls in love with girl walks into the sunset hand in hand . The interjection of the character in his later years keeps the book flowing and gives the reader a chance to develop empathy for the main character.The end is upbeat seems a bit unbelievable but then again it keeps the spark of the book burning bright.Looking forward to more reading from Sara Gruen . ",3
"This book is a glimpse into circuses and carnivals of the past in all their sordid glory . I was as fascinated with the circus life as I was with Jacob 's story . I was n't sure what to expect but I was fascinated with the book 's description and became determined to read it . On an unexpected day off I began reading and could n't put it down . It has an unexpected depth . ",4
"I did n't not expect to really enjoy it since I 'd held off reading it for a while . however the characters ' stories and interactions capture your attention . ",3
"i have to start by saying that this is not the type of book that i normally would have picked up . but i 've been reading almost nothing but tom robbins chuck palahniuk ak on the spelling author of fight club and christopher moore for awhile and needed to get out of it . i was stuck in a rut . so at borders i hounded all the employees for their book recomendations and one suggested this book . it looked interesting started out ok so i bought it.it took me awhile to get around to it but i 'm glad i did . normally it would have taken about 2 lunch break weeks to finish it it 's frequently the only time i get to read but i just had to take it home and finish over the weekend . i really enjoyed the story and tone the sort of reminiscent theme and the detail that went into the book.it really was a good read . i 'm now interested in reading more on the circuis now in general . at least the historical aspects . ",3
"Water for Elephants follows two alternating storylines the first traces the veterinary career of Jacob Jankowsi a Cornell dropout who finds work with a littleknown circus during the Great Depression . The second sees Jacob years later as a bored temperamental old man in a nursing home . Having nothing but time the older Jacob slips in and out of memories mentally revisiting his days with the circus.The main focus of the circus storyline is the love triangle between Jacob the circus 's equestrian director August and August 's beautiful wife Marlena a performer . Although they all start out as friends it soon proves to be a disjointed friendship at best . Despite his charming exterior August is a twodimensional bully prone to violent rages . Jacob on the other hand is relatively sane competent though naive and shares a mutual passion with Marlena also somewhat twodimensional for the circus animals.The story has potential . Honestly what 's a more romantic setting for a love story than the surreal world of the circus ? Unfortunately the circus merely serves as exquisite background scenery for the main drama which turns out to be nothing more than a predictable love story between two cardboard characters I could honestly care less about . That said it 's still worth a single read just for the background material itself . ",2
"Great story . Brings you right back the old days of the circus . Interesting exciting dark and romantic all in one book ! I even got my husband who never reads to listen to the audio and he loved it ! ",4
"after reading the book I bought the dvd to see how they compare i have not had time to watch it yet but I am excited for a rainy day to come when I can kick back and ENJOY ! ",4
"Nice enjoyable reading . A very nostalgic look at what circus life must have been during those times . A very fun book ! ",2
"Another one of those page turners ! Wanted to read for years and it was worth the wait ! Now I will watch the movie . The only natural progression right ? ",4
"Some parts are entertaining enough but left me wanting more . Lacking in character development . Predictable with a thin story line . Skip it . Better stuff out there to read . ",0
"I did n't know what to expect from this one but since there was so much to do I decided to give it a whirl . I 'm glad I did . Its the story of a 97 year old man who has flashbacks to his life in the circus during the depression . Those were rough times . It 's about how hard things were but also the good things . The story flashes back & forth between the present in a nursing home and the circus days . ",3
"UGH ! The first couple chapters were wonderful . Then it went downhill so fast I thought I was reading another book . do n't waste your money . ",1
"I was afraid I was not going to be able to relate to this book as it begins when Jacob is ninety or nienty three . I assumed it was going to be about dealing with age and death and boy was I wrong ! As soon as I started this book I could not put it down . I love how it hops from old Jacob to young Jacob . It has mystery love suspense and deathjust to name a few . It was so much more than the easy read I thought I picked up . The characters had such depth and you could truly feel their emotions . Who would have thought I would be so interested in the goingons of circus life but this book draws you in and makes you never want to leave the big top . ",4
"Sometimes reading a book you wonder about editorial decisions mostly to do with scenes or plot twistsdirection that just do not belong . With this book I would not have included the photographs that begin each chapter . I thought the writer was doing a more than adequate job in her descriptions and thought the photos detracted . Also do not need the author 's note at end . Do n't remind us this was fiction created and crafted we want to shut the book and remember the story . ",3
"Great book really sucks you into the story and for feel for this band of characters . The movie does not do it justice . ",3
"Good read . Makes you wonder . Would like to tell more but do n't want to ruin the story . Interesting from another thought and time . ",4
"Great story a fast read you do n't want to put it down . Sara Gruen is an excellent writer she studies the topic and uses actual facts in her story . You really feel for the characters and the animals and are drawn into the story . ",4
"Yes this was a terrific book ! And I am sooo glad I read it ! But reading it prevented me from going to the movie which may have been a bit of visualaudio overload for me . ",4
"This book sat on my bookshelf for over a year and I finally picked it up because i saw an ad about the movie . Now I am saying to myself why did I wait so long to read this book.Water for Elephants was so visual to me and I constantly dreamed that I was with the characters on the train . I would get up thinking about the animals and what they needed for the day . I dreamed that I was under the big top . I also could not get out of my mind the thoughts that the main character had as an older man . The author did not hold anything back and I loved that this made the character so real to me . This book was definitely a part of me while reading it and I am sure it will stick with me for awhile.The story goes from the main character being an older man to him thinking about when he was younger and how he got involved with the circus . There is a love story that is so strong and so real.I would recommend this book to anyone . ",4
"Water for Elephants is fiction but the author clearly did her research and so it 's solidly based on the sad realities of life for both humans and animals working in circuses during the Depression . But sadly animal circuses have n't changed much since that time . Human workers may no longer be redlighted but captive wild animals are still packed into buses or trains without heat in winter or air conditioning in summer imprisoned in cages or chained up forced to perform demeaning tricks for the public and given generally substandard if any medical care and often not enough nourishment.Gruen can tell a story she has vivid characters she presented the animal characters in a sympathetic and favorable light and I enjoyed the read . But I have to say that to me the happy ending of Jacob and Marlena finding employment with Ringling Brothers so they can bring Rosie Bobo and the horses along with them is anything but . Admittedly for those times it may have been the only option open to them and there were few if any animal protection advocates out there exposing circuses like Ringling . The truth is that Ringling Brothers has a long history of welldocumented animal abuse particularly of elephants something Ms. Gruen never refers to in her novelalthough to her credit she talks about the infamous unbelievably cruel execution of Topsy by electrocution of none other than American paragon Thomas Edison . It 's also quite unrealistic that they would be able to keep an adult chimp as a pet especially with five children of their own to care for and protect . Chimps become quite intractable as adults they 're extremely strong unpredictable and dangerous.I ca n't help thinking that the happy ending to a circus novel set in the 21st century would have Rosie sent to a place like The Elephant Sanctuary to spend her remaining life blissfully roaming hundreds of acres with other former circus and zoo elephants and Bobo retiring to a wonderful sanctuary like Save the Chimps where he would join a chimp family and have the closest thing to a normal life a captive ape can have . And Jacob getting a job at a zoo so he can take Rosie along after his circus career is also not a very cheery outcome for me . There 's no question that zoo elephants lead short painful highly restricted lives and many zoos are in the process of retiring their elephants to sanctuaries.Also it 's quite unbelievable to me that after Jacob witnessed so much brutality while working for circuses earlier in his life he would want to join a circus again rather than live in a nursing home . That speaks volumes about that nursing home ! Lastly I understand that the author considers herself an animal lover but that can mean a lot of things and I 'm wondering exactly what her agenda was writing this book . ",1
"Read this because my granddaughter raved about the movie . Really liked the book it 's a good story . Now I need to see the movie . ",3
"I could not put this book down . Wish there was a sequel to this book . Wonderful story . Now I want to see the movie . ",4
"I have really enjoyed this book . It is well written . I would recommend this book to my friends and family . ",4
"the novel had substance you know a plot . Unpredictable . Just when you think you might know what 's going to happen next . Intrique . Sadness hardship joy . Keeps you hoping things will work out of course can not tell whether they do or not a good good read . ",4
"I thoroughly enjoyed this book . Sara did a great job researching her subject and delighted me with characters that were believable . ",4
"Water for Elephants is a thoroughly enjoyable read ! ! I loved it and give it the maximum amount of stars.The uniquely quirky world of circuses and traveling sideshows is fascinating and Ms. Gruen brings it to life with a sweet 93yearold character who takes us back and forth between the depressionera traveling circus of his past and the old folks ' home of his present . Feisty Jacob Jankowski remembers those days and a certain elephant with much love You 'll love his story too . ",4
"If it does n't depress you reading about getting old and senile and cruelty to animals this is the book for you ! Yes it is very very well written which is why I could n't stop reading it but it is very very depressing . ",2
"You are very close to your parents and are planning on following in your father 's footsteps becoming a veternarian . In fact you have completed your grad studies at one of the finest institutions of higher learning in the land and are prepared to sit for your finals . Then you discover your parents were just killed in a freakish auto accident . You are devastated leave your immediate surroundings if not your wits as well and find yourself working as a vet in a broken down Greatest Show on Earth circus wannabe.This is the story of Jacob Jankowski a prospective animal doctor who tries to find himself after he experiences the worst possible news . This phenomenal novel fluctuates between 93 year old Jacob 's declining last years in a retirement home to his 3.5 month stint as a vet in a traveling circus during the Great Depression.You will not be able to put this book down as you travel back in time and discover Jacob 's newly found existance as a member of the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth . His friends Kinko the Clown Walter Camel and others will sadden you as you explore their limited fragmented lives . While Jacob grows more cynical in those who callously control the lives of others he also learns about himself through his caretaking instincts involving an elephant named Rosie . This relationship seals his beliefs that he needs to complete his final exams and secure the profession he was meant for . In addition he discovers the love of his life Marlena and how true happiness is found in his desire to protect and defend her.The ending of this book will both surprise you and leave you with a sense of fulfillment as you discover the kindness of othres . 5+ stars ",4
"For me this book was like making a dear friend and then bidding him farewell . I tried to savor this story but could n't put it down either . I was so sad when I got to the last page and it was over.I think the other reviews cover the storyline welland I 'm not a fan of giving away endings but in general it has vivid character development authentic to the period and circus era of the depression years and despite some graphic scenes which add to rather than take away it was a great great read.I suspect it will be hailed as one of summer 2008 's top beach readsand will be on my recommend list to anyone who will listen for a long time to come . ",4
"Ms. Gruen is a fantastic author . Water for Elephants is beautifully written . It 's almost hard to believe that this book is fiction ! I do n't want to spoil this book for other readers just read it ! You 'll be done in two days this novel is a page turner ! ",4
"This is an excellent story . It 's well written and well researched . If you want to read a good book grab a cup of coffee and pull up a comfy chair . Get ready to go back in time and enjoy the characters . Fall in love . ",3
"After all the hype about this book I finally gave in to reading a borrowed copy . I wanted to like it truly I did . I made it to page 164 with some effort . The characters were not developed well enough for me to like them . Also I work with elderly people and the narrator as an elderly man was not altogether believable.What I did enjoy was learning a bit about the circus business back in the 30s.Please if you know of some real 5star novels nonromance let me know . ",1
"This is a love story set in one of the most romantic of all institutions the Circus.Sara Gruen chronicles life in the depths of the 1930 's economic melt down . The protagonist 's parents lost their $ 5000 life savings when their bank closed . As veterinarians they accepted farm crops in lieu of cash . Their orphaned son Jacob hops a train in the night only to discover it 's a circus train.I would bet today 's circuses have several vets on staff or continency Uncle Al 's circus does n't have any nor does it need a resume certification or even a copy of a degree to bring one on board . If the horse survives you have a job ! The other employment practices of this circus are not so idyllic . In these times people stayed with Uncle Al merely for a meal.The author has chosen a great vehicle for the tale a nongenerian who longs to return to the world where he fell in love.This story is simply and beautifully told . I see that it has been optioned for a film . The content is great for both print and screen . ",4
"I bought this book when it was a Kindle deal of the day although I had long had it on my wish list due to the many rave reviews it had received . I have never been fascinated by circuses so maybe that 's why I did n't find this story to be very engaging . The characters never seemed very real and the story just seemed too implausible for my taste . I did enjoy the device of having the protagonist tell the story from his point of view at age 90 and at 23 and I thought the chapters taking the 90 year old 's viewpoint were far better written than the rest of the book . While I did n't dislike the book I certainly do not think it deserves the high praise bestowed upon it by the majority of the reviewers . ",2
"One of the very best books I 've ever read ! First watched the movie also great then decided if the movie was that great watching I better read the book ! Excellent ! ",4
"I did not like all the animal abuse . It was just hard to read . A very depressing story . ",0
"I could not put this book down . Maybe it 's because I love history and this novel is so very rich with it . Or maybe it 's because I 've always been a hopeless romantic rooting for people who should n't be in love to find their happy ending . Or maybe it 's my penchant for heroes who are thrust into unfamiliar territory in this case the circus world and have to find their way . Whateverthis book stayed with me long after I finished it and that 's the best kind of read of all . ",4
"This was an excellent book . Both because of its fascinating glimpse into circus life in the 1930 's as well as for its wonderful description of life for someone who is elderly and stuck in a nursing home when his body is frail but his mind and desire for independence is still strong . I loved the ending as well very fitting . ",3
"The circus part of this novel is great and beautifully written and I really enjoyed it . Two things bothered me however he really did n't do anything veterinariany after the initial diagnosing of the horse and the romance between Jacob and Marlena was n't well evolved.overall it was good bathtub reading and it made me more interested in the circus . ",2
"One of my absolute alltime favorites . Not for the weak of stomach but a great book that keeps you reading with many twists and turns ! ",4
"It was hard to put the book down . The circus life way back was very interesting and fun to read about . ",4
"This is one of my favorite books ever ! It 's the past present and future of a man his life in the circus and his love for a woman and an elephant called Rose . ",4
"I do ! The story had me hooked I felt like I was a part of this exotic traveling troupe and despite the horrors and sadness in it I could n't be pulled away . Especially heartrending was the author 's detailed depiction of the heavyladen postdepression days and what one tragedy can do to a person turn his life upside down . The storyline had my emotions wrapped up in the circus and in the next moment broke my heart for the lonely old man in a nursing home . Excellent read that pulled me in and caught my breath . ",4
"Stripped of everything after his parents ' untimely death twentythreeyear old Jacob Jankowski has failed to sit for his veterinary exams at Cornell left with no home and no future the country struggling through the Great Depression bartering in goods instead of money . Hopping a train that by chance belongs to The Flying Squadron of the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth Jacob hires on to care for the menagerie his training an entre into this bizarre world but as the novel begins Jacob is an old man restricted to an assisted living home his memories sparked by a nearby visiting circus and a creeping helplessness that assaults his ageing body Age is a terrible thief . Just when you think you 're getting the hang of it it knocks your legs out from under you and stoops your back.The story is related in the somber tones of the Depression the hardscrabble and often unscrupulous business of a traveling circus and the heartless despots who make their fortunes on the backs of men who must do anything to survive . Star performer Marlena an equestrian is sensitive to the needs of her horses although her mercurial husband August the trainer is obsessively jealous and given to unspeakable cruelties . Uncle Al Benzini Brothers circus ownerbydefault is a ruthless businessman who cares little for man or beast engaged in a quest for fame to rival the great Ringling Brothers . With his advanced training in veterinary medicine Jacob does his best to protect the animals from their harsh existence especially Rosie an elephant purchased to replace Marlena 's lead horse . Jacob and Rosie share an affinity for one another the huge creature at times almost human . Because of his growing affection for Marlena Jacob suffers August 's increasing affronts caught in a cycle of inevitable violence certain of a reckoning.In chapters that move flawlessly back and forth in time from the rowdy circus atmosphere to the antiseptic corridors of the assisted living home the world is viewed through Jacob 's perspective as he rages helplessly against the decrepitude of old age and the secrets of the past . In prose both poignant and infinitely tender Jacob dwells in both worlds revealing the wounds of the past and the sorrows of the present . In one touching scene Jacob awaits a family member to escort him to the circus yearning for the Big Top with every fiber of his being craving the familiar sights and smells of that pivotal summer of ` 31 the roustabouts the kinkers the rubes the animals . The denouement is devastating as inescapable as the indifferent world that turns a blind eye to the vagrants of the 30 's . Yet Jacob 's spirit retains the essence of his kind nature and a respect for others a man who will not be broken by circumstances . All is redeemed in a coup d'grace that will leave the reader strangely satisfied and richer for having met this raggedy tribe of miscreants and lost souls . Luan Gaines 2006 . ",4
"Filled up a two day train ride . A very worthwhile purchase . Lovely ending GREAT as a gift to an avid reader . ",4
"I have to confess that I only read the book because of the great reviews . I am not crazy about the circus my childhood memories are made of bad smells and not so funny clowns . However this book is wonderful in every way I am deeply in love with the characters the time period and the animalsthe best read this summer for me . ",4
"I thoroughly enjoyed this book and could hardly put it down . I recommend this book to anyone who ever went to the circus and also those who never had the opportunity to see one . ",4
"This novel is the best of all of my summer reading so far . I could n't put it down and read the entire book in a day . I was absolutely captivated . Each incident each character the plot the timeframe every aspect of this book was simply amazing and I was even brought to tears twice.What a perfect setting . The Great Depression the time when the great circus shows began to lose their prowess as the best kind of entertainment . But the Benzini Brothers circus is n't the fun songanddance circus that everyone thinks of from movies like 'The Greatest Show on Earth ' 'Merry Andrew ' or even Disney 's 'Dumbo ' . This circus is a delight on the surface but a nasty dirty dangerous and deadly place to be if you 're not a performer . And even some of the performers get the boot like poor Walter the dwarf clown.This kind of circus gives a taste of what spectators and boys who dream of running away to join the circus would never imagine.The method of Jacob 's memoirs alternating between his life now at 93 years old still sharp minded and still having all of his teeth stuck in a nursing home and feeling horribly depressed about it all and remembering what happened during his time with the Benzini Brothers Circus is an incredible technique . One minute I was drawn in by his angst of losing his parents his home and his security to the point of jumping the next train to anywhere and then suddenly we are back in the nursing home and poor Jacob is fighting with a fellow resident about the possibility of carrying water for elephants.Add the vulturous Uncle Al the wicked ringmaster who 'll stop at nothing to make his circus better than the Ringling Bros. the schizophrenic August beautiful Marlena a halfparalyzed drunk a cranky dwarf and his little dog Queenie and an elephant who only understands Polish . The characters alone are enough to make you want to read before you even know half of what is going on.As I said twice I was brought to tears once by old Jacob in the nursing home when he realizes that his five children had forgotten who was to take him on his outing and he was actually brought to tears himself . I just could n't help but think of my own 90 year old grandfather who is n't in assisted living and drives himself and my grandmother to Florida every winter and goes bowling and plays shuffleboard every week . It was sad to think of poor Jacob excited about getting to see the circus one last time and then being terribly disappointed that his own children had forgotten . It made me feel like I will never let that happen to my grandfather.No one who reads this book will be disappointed . From cover to cover it is absolutely wonderful . The writing style is simple and easy to understand . There is no 'filler ' unnecessary boring descriptions or dialogue that has nothing to do with the story . It is an excellent novel and although I could rave some more about my favorite characters and my favorites scenes and so on I will simply say that it is a mustread . ",4
"I really enjoyed this book . I ended up reading Gruen 's The Ape House first which I greatly disliked and kept hearing WFE was so much better I was not disappointed ! The story was solid interesting and well crafted and the whole thing was just a very enjoyable read . I 'm looking forward to the film version as well . ",4
"Loved this book . Super detail about depression era circus life ! And modern day thoughts of nursing home resident ! Everyone should enjoy this book ! ",4
"The various characters made this story interesting . Each brought a part of every day life . Some were misjudged . I did not like the fact that one could not trust anyone well unless heshe were very well acquainted with each person . the story was fascinating and circus life was presented as hard work low pay and no home for many . I would recommend this book to imaginative spirits and to those who trust and judge too easily and quickly . There were some tender parts that were a relief from all the cheating . ",3
"This historic look at circus life was interesting and kept me reading for hours . I would highly recommended it for anyone . ",4
"If I live to be a thousand years old I will never understand the hoopla surrounding this novel . It was praised for its meticulous research but while reading it I found myself thinking that it had been written by somebody who had never been to a circus and I was unsurprised to find out that I was correct . My first college roommate was a real circus girl and I can tell you that Sara Gruen did not even scratch the surface of circus life.It 's a rare writer who can write well in the voice of the gender they are not and Sara Gruen is not eligible for that club . If I had not known for sure that a woman had written it it would n't have been a difficult guess.The story is so melodramatic it belongs among the most florid of historical romantic fiction and that is not my cup of tea . I had to force myself to complete this book . I wish I had n't . ",0
"This book had a tiny bit of a slow start but once it got into the thick of things I could n't put it down and I literally read the second half the book in a 2hour timespan . Such a great story I 've made my husband a veterinarian promise me he 'll read it ! ",4
"I heard they made a movie of this so I bought the book but was disappointed in it . Maybe it was just me . Never did like circus . ",2
"What a pleasure to have such a fascinating book read to me by two great readers ! The main character a 93 year old man recounting his life is read by an actor whose rough gravelly voice perfectly embodies the character . The main character as a 23 year old is read by a much younger actor . Together these two readers turned this book into an unforgettable novel.Maybe the book is every bit as good as a read but having had heard it on CD that 's the way I 'd recommend you discover it too ! ",4
"Loved the way it was written . Loved the storyline . Great ending . Very good insight into the time of the Depression and the inner workings of a circus . ",4
"I escaped in this book over the weekend . Wonderfully written and instantly grabs your attention . I 'll admit this is n't a book that I would have typically chosen to read but several coworkers recommended it . So glad I purchased it and highly recommend it ! ",4
"I first saw the movie and loved it but wanted to read the book . I was not surprised to find the book was better . the things that happen in the book were so much darker than the movie portrayed . this will be on my read again list ! ",4
"What can I say that the other 5 star reviewers have n't already ? Nothing.Read the reviews.Buy this book.It 's wonderful ! ",4
"Water for Elephants is a wonderful combination of history romance and life in a circus . This was a fast read.I could n't put it down . And the ending was a nice surprise . ",4
"What a wonderful story ! What great characters ! Loved the backdrop of both the circus and the nursing home . I am amazed how Sara Gruen was able to put us there experiencing both young Jacob 's life as well as 93 year old Jacob 's world . Everyone I 've talked to in the last week I 've told them about this great book . Look forward to the movie this spring . I sure hope they 're able to do it the justice it deserves ! ",4
"This is a sometimes gritty sometimes heartwrenching story of a man who ran away and joined the circus . The story is told through the mind of Jacob a nonogenarian yes I had to look that up resident of a nursing home who was orphaned his last week of veterinary school . Jacob discovers that his parents struggling along with everyone else through the end of the Great Depression had impoverished themselves to keep him in college . Broke himself and unable to focus enough to complete his exams he desperately jumps a train and runs away from his life.The train he jumps happens to belong to The Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth . Barely avoiding getting thrown off the train he is befriended by a few of the circus workers and becomes the veterinarian for the show 's menagerie of exotic animals.This look behind the scenes of the train circuses is enough in itself to carry the book . Sara Gruen 's ability to place herself behind the eyes of a 93 or is it 90 ? yearold man is gripping . The two combined give the story a depth that makes you want to keep turning the pages.The flaws in the story are not enough to make it founder but just enough to keep this from being a fivestar read . In particular Jacob 's ability to turn his back when those he loves are endangered is at odds with what we see of his nature at other times . The encapsulated explanations for his behavior notwithstanding his integrity is deeply flawed in a manner that ca n't be explained away and yet the author ignores it . We are thus left cheated from seeing not just how Jacob affects the circus but how deeply the circus affects Jacob . ",3
"This has been one of my favorite books I have read in a long time and I really enjoyed reading every minute of it . ",4
"Although the story is quite intriguing and the juxtaposition of Jacob 's life in a nursing home with his life as a young vet at the circus is a clever way to tell the story the hardships that the animals endure are quite upsetting . I had to stop reading this book when August decided to take his anger out on Rosie the elephant because his wife who had never ridden an elephant was injured during Rosie 's first performance a performance for which neither one had trained . Circus trainer 's used a bull hook to cause pain to the elephant so that it would do what they wanted it to do I do n't know the extent to which he tortured the elephant with the bull hook but I did n't want to find out.In terms of the writing style it is not the best . I believe the books ' popularity may have more to do with the scenes in the nursing home which are much better written than those of the circus and touch the lives of many of us who have had to put our parents in or have visited these institutions . ",1
"I had numerous kin friends and coworkers tell me to read Sara Gruen 's Water for Elephants . I told each person that as soon as I obtain the opportunity I would read the novel . The narrator Jacob did an eminent job guiding the reader . Personally I did n't feel everything he was going through but I was able to help justify his actions . For instance when he finally yelled at August or when he consummated his love for Marlena . What intrigued me most about Gruen 's writing was her ability to tie the ninety year old Jacob to the circus Jacob . I was thrilled how she gave Jacob a sense of eudemonia when the book concluded . Jacob finished up where he began he ended up right where he wanted to be . On a scale of 110 I would give this book a 9 . All in all when you read it you wo n't be disappointed . ",3
"Water for elephants was certainly an entertaining read but I have read better . It did help to open my eyes to the life of circus performers in the 1920 's . This was very well projected throughout the entire book and it was easy to tell that the author was very well educated on the topic . I do think however that there should be a warning about the sexual content within the book . I would only recommend it for mature readers . I would recommend this book if you have a lot of time to enjoy the context in which it was written . ",3
"Along with the Miracle Life of Edgar Mint The Secret Life of Bee 's and Kite Runner this is one of my favorite books . I read it gave it to my husband who rarely reads a book he finished it in a week and my 15 year old daughter who finished it in a day . We all really enjoyed it ! The way the author describes life in an oldfolks home is hilarious and heartbreaking at the same time . Even though it started with the end we all found the book kept us wondering what would happen next ! Especially good for a book club ! ",4
"This book just was n't for me . Its not the writing at all . It 's very descriptive and written very well . It 's just too dark and depressing for my taste . It put me in a funk . I do n't recommend reading this unless you do n't mind reading a good story with a whole bunch of downer situations . ",1
"This book was an enjoyable read . It was an unusual story and hard to get into from the first few pages . Persevering I found it a good read . I do n't think I could watch the movie if they included the abuse to the elephant . ",3
"I loved this book from beginning to end . Along with some entertaining history this is a beautifully woven tale . To my mind a good novel has unexpected twists and surprises .. and this book carried one beautiful surprise all the way through.This book stirred in me an affection for elephants that I had n't felt since childhood . Along with The Magician 's Elephant by Kate DiCamillo Water for Elephants helped to inspire the painting The Gentle Somnambulist which is included in my bookTREASURE Twenty One Paintings and a Key . ",4
"The characters were interesting and the circus storyline kept my attention throughout . Learned some facts pertaining to a big top circus . ",4
"Water For Elephants was an excellent book detailing what life was like for those who worked for the circus during the Depression era and later . This wonderful story was told in flashback by a crotchety ninetyyear old man named Jacob who lives in a nursing home.Other reviewers have already summarized the story very well . Therefore I just want to add that I especially enjoyed Water For Elephants specifically because it was told from the perspective of an elderly individual who in telling the circusdays story of his youth also gave the reader a realistic perspective of aging . For me this was what made Sara Gruen 's novel all the more compelling.For those who have elderly family in nursing homes I would recommend that you read this book to your love one . I 'm sure they will enjoy it as much as you ! Maizie Lucille JamesJanuary 13 2012 ",4
"This book was recommended to me by a few good friends and since there was a movie coming out as well I was prompted to read it . It is the perfect book if you need a light read and to just get lost in another world for a little while . The story has great depth and imagination . It is filled with colorful emotions and characters . It is great for any reader seeking a dark winding tale with a unique love story . ",3
"I had such a love hate relationship with this book . I struggled in the beginning that I even wanted to read it but with all the hype and the movie coming out I figured I should trudge on . Overall I 'm glad I did . After a certain part there really are no dull moments and lots of plot twists . The writing and character development is phenomenal although there were a lot of graphic parts that I thought could 've been left out and made me not want to continue sometimes and I 'm pretty tough . Towards the end I was flying through it and can not wait to see how they pull off the movie ! ",3
"These are the books I 've been reading . Some were great while some were just okay ! But all teach something . I love to read ! ",4
"I am not sure what I see all the hype about for this book but it was a pageturner I 'll give it that . The writing was very well done as Jacob told his tale of being in the circus all these years later in a nursing home forgotten and old in body not in mind.The life of the circus was clearly visible while reading this story as was the life in a nursing home . At first I was more interested to have the chapters go back to the present because the past was so horrible to witness but then his present life was n't that cozy either.The ending was the best part of the book for me as it was most tender . It was n't a bad read but not an entertaining one . ",2
"I am truly enjoying this story . I recommend it to anyone who enjoys a story with humor heart break and history that you ca n't find in your typical fiction . ",4
"Interesting details about circus life but you can pretty much guess what is going to happen . It 's a decent enough book for a summer read not to heavy . Not the best book for a deep discussion but enjoyed by many so may work well for book club . ",3
"The most interesting thing about this book for me was getting a look into how circus workers performers animals etc . live day to day life traveling on a circus train going from town to town and performing multiple shows in each town . At times the story did drag a bit for me . As others have said I feel the love story involved was not very well developed . It is clear from the beginning who the main character 's love interest is and will be but it does n't develop a whole lot before they are hitting the sheets . I also feel some parts of the book were a little rushed and could have been explained a little more with more detail . Overall I did enjoy reading this book . I learned a lot about how circus life was in the 1930 's . You can tell the author did a lot of research for this book as far as details of the circus and circus life goes . I also enjoyed the fact that the book also takes you into the main character 's later life and tells the story as if he is remembering and looking back on it all . The book also has a fairly good ending . ",3
"This book was a wonderful story and left me with a bit of hope . Even in the dark moments I could not turn away from it . Lots of genuine characters that made me feel as though I could reach out and touch them at times . It reminded me of circus visits and riding on elephants as a child with my face painted and a bag of cotton candy in hand ! Though I normally do not like historical novels I loved this one . ",4
"I think really I would give this three and a half stars but because we ca n't do that I 've gone with three . This book was really well written and in turn I was able to picture the characters as clearly as if they were people in the flesh . One particular character August got on my nerves and made me so mad I ca n't describe but that shows what great writing it was . Good book about how life is travelling with a circus . ",2
"Overall I 'm rather underwhelmed based on the hype around this book.The details of the Great Depression were amazing and seemed accurate enough . The writing did n't get in the way too much but seemed amateurish at times . I spent the ENTIRE afternoon EACH and EVERY ONE was used three times in a single chapter and unimaginative clich & eacutes one after another such as quick as lightning were not uncommon . I assumed this was Gruen 's first novel and was quite surprised to find out it was her third.The morality of the story fell very flat as well . The characters kind of want to do the right thing but I was n't sold on their move toward adultery based on initial attraction . A lot of people feel an attraction toward someone who is not their spouse . That does n't mean it is right or destined . Greun 's inability to convince me that Jacob and Marlena were any different was a major failing of the novel for me.How many meals can people in the Great Depression skip without even thinking about it . At least a dozen times through the book people skipped meals because they did n't feel like eating.I had high expectations so I 'm judging harshly . Did not meet expectations . Not a bad book by any means but far short of noveloftheyear quality . ",2
"At the time of this review there are over 1700 reviews posted so I wo n't bother to sum up the story but just my opinion of the book.I thought the book was simple to read an interesting story and engaging characters.Even though this novel is not perfect and a standard boy meets girl story with a charming setting the descriptions are colorful and the characters are a variety of misfits but somehow it all works and comes together very nicely for an entertaining and well paced read.Granted the book is not going to be put on a shrine of the scholarly literary Olympus but to me this book felt as if I was reading a fairytale and I tremendously enjoyed it . ",3
"Two parallel stories where classical human principles and miseries collide . Very good character development and a nice ending to wraps things up . Very gripping I finished in less than a couple of days ",3
"I found myself yanked around a bit by what seemed like a formula fiction plot with the protagonist frustrated from reaching his goal at every turn and the Bad Guy a bit of a caricature . In spite of this I really enjoyed reading this book . The circus world setting historical time offbeat characters foreign language twists and starring role for an elephant made it a page turner and a book I can readily recommend to others as a really fun read . ",4
"I spent most of this book wondering why Gruen chose to intersperse her primary story of a young man who found himself thrust into the circus life in 1931 with the musings of that same man at the age of 93 . The story of how Jacob came to be in the circus and what happened to him there seemed like enough to me and Jacob 's aged voice seemed unnecessary . At the end of the book though I realized why she gave us both perspectives and could hardly argue with her narrative device as the closure it provides works so well . ",3
"This book is just a fun read . Nothing deep or realistic about the story . Nothing to be learned . No point . Just entertainment . Do n't expect to connect with any of the characters because they are totally unrealistic . This book is just pure fantasy almost childish . I did find the book worth reading not a waste of time because it is entertaining . However am I compelled to buy another book from this author ? Probably not . Am I going to recommend it to my friends ? Probably so with the disclaimer that it is a light fun read . ",2
"Going to see this movie about a tyrant psycho circus owner who beats elephants till they bleed and abuses his workers can not bring any more hope to a world already drowning in stories of despair . I hope the book was better . ",1
"I loved this story . About the circus . Not the sort of thing you usually find as a subject or background in a serious novel . Characters are interestingly portrayed and plot moves along quite quickly . This is n't Nobel Prize stuff but a very enjoyable read . ",4
"Saw the movie first and was excited to read the book next . Very disappointed about the book . The movie carried the story line so much better . The worst thing about the book was the main character . In the movie at least they made him out to be a real hero . In the book he seems like a complete jerk . ",1
"This was a fun interesting and at times heart breaking story . Almost immediately after finishing the book I missed the characters . ",4
"As usual much better than the movie . Hard to put down . A glimpse into a largely unknown world of the circus with a lot of depth . ",4
"An evocative pageturner . A wonderfully gripping life story with 2 timelines blending beautifully . The 93or 90yearold and 20 yearold Jacob Jankowski both tell their tales both ultimately centering on the circus.There is little to add to the many reviews but I want to stand up and be counted as one more who found the book absolutely riveting and unforgettable . The writing is beautifully clear and the episodes from the 2 timelines are interposed perfectly . Artfully done Ms. Gruen ! ",4
"It was suggested to me that the book was better than the moviewhich I loved ! But I could n't put this book down ! ",4
"From the very first paragraph this author grabs our attention and awakens every sensetouch smells descriptions that have us see every nuance of the scene before us as if we were standing next to the hero . Besides she surprises us with unexpected descriptions that are raw real and gutsy . For eg . I left there stiff all over.Wonderful reading I need to go to bed earlier so I can read more of this wonderful book before sleep o'ertakes me . ",3
"More than a vivid picture of early circus life . Wonderful characters both human and animal . Would love to read more from Sara gruen ",4
"Downloaded quickly and easily to my device . The story was far better than the movie ! Lots of detail and an overall good read . ",4
"This was an awesome story very intricate and detailed . It is an amazing tale of a rich life now being recalled at the end of lifeonly his life adventure is continuing . I cheered at the end excited to finally have a story with a happy ending . Great story . ",4
"What a great story teller Sara Gruen is ! Her use of narration and relaying events like a traveling circus during the Depression make this such a rich and captivating novel . This novel was hard to put down and I often found myself thinking about Jacob Marlena Walter Rosie and the many other colorful characters . I found Jacob at 90 or 93 funny and sharp . I had worked in a nursing home through college so I found his behavior totally realistic humorous and sad at the same time . The younger Jacob 's innocence quixotic actions and love of the animal menagerie hook you right into the story and captures your imagination as you go through the Benzini Brothers Most Amazing Show . This story of the travelling circus tragedy is amazingly well relayed . I did n't want the story to end ! So imagine how ecstatic I was when I saw the audio book in our public library . I guess I had not been read to enough as a child so I found myself totally engrossed in this story again during my commute to work . The readers ' voices and intonations transported me to another time and place . It felt like good radio of old not that I come from that era but I imagine people glued to their sets listening to latest adventure story . Even though I knew the outcome of the story I loved listening to it . Water for Elephants was our last book club pick and everyone enjoyed the story . We all LOVED the ending even if it is a bit unrealistic it certainly connects well and mirrors the beginning with coming into the circus family . ",4
"I liked the ending of this book better than any other part . This mans life after the death of his parents was hard as expected . It dragged on for me until the end when he was living his last years of his life in a nursing home . his children disregarded him emotionally . They went to visit but real interest in him was gone . They did their duty . He escapes in the end and lives out his life with the circus . The place where he lived most of his life after his parents death.It was good not great for me . ",2
"I enjoyed reading this book and recommend to read it . It was fast reading and full of surprises . It really met my expectations . ",3
"As a person who usually reads nonfiction books about science and psychology I thought I 'd give myself a break and see what all the hype surrounding Water for Elephants was about . I was not disappointed . It was not the best book I 've ever read but it was very entertaining and a pretty quick read . I was explaining to someone that the story is very formulaic guy wants girl ca n't have girl ends up getting girl but it was set against a different backdrop than others . Sometimes that 's exactly the kind of book you want to read . ",3
"I 've just started and I 'm already enjoying it very much . Bought it because I 'm waiting for a film to come out with robert Pattinson in the leading role . I was n't dissapointed ! Great choice Rob ! The book has an interesting style touching storyline and seems just very refreashing and quite original it has gotten great critique reviews too . Buy this book you wo n't be dissapointed . ",4
"Water for Elephants is a wellwritten wellresearched book regarding postdepression circuses and their people and animals . the characters are fully developed and i found myself rooting for some and booing for others . i really did n't want this story to end i have read it several times and saw the movie which followed the book pretty well . i would recommend this book highly . ",4
"i did n't think that iwould like this book but found that once i became involved with the time period and the characters i did like the book . it was a book club selection from one of my three books clubs otherwise iwould not have chosen it . but after reading did like it . because of the circus performers handicaps it may not be appropriate for all readers but the story is so strong that the reader soon forgets the less desirable features of the story . ",2
"Ever page held u right there waiting to see what next was going to happen in the day of a circus Plus a love story It had u wanting to watch the movie which I will be doing as soon as possible I really like the ending better then dying in a old age place ",4
"I loved the character of Jacob when he was ninety or ninetythree . He has been there done that as he reflects on his life on a depression era circus train . When I think of Water for Elephants I do n't see 23 year old Jacob and Marlena and the circus gang I see this old man who still stands up for his rights mainly his right to live his life as he sees fit . The whole story is developing this one character You go 90somethingyearold Jacob enjoy ! ! Rosemary was another character I enjoyed so patient so sincerely understanding.My main issue with the book Water for Elephants not the title I would have chosen . A great title but I do n't feel that the book reflected the significance needed for that name . As I was reading I kept expecting something to exhibit Water for Elephants besides McGuinty.This read was chosen for my book club and what a fun book to plan a party around would definitely recommend this book to friends family and fellow book clubbers out there . ",4
"Were it not for the tantalizing action captured in the prologue I might not have read past page 7 of this book . Two tales are interwoven one of the writer as a 93yearold in a present day nursing home the other of the writer as a 24yearold runaway in the 1930 's who accidentally joins a circus.The old man 's story begins the book and the accurate portrayal of the patronizing impersonal falsely cheerful care that the elderly often receive is what nearly stopped me from reading further . I did NOT want to read about the miseries of life in nursing homes even if the story was amusing and well told . Luckily for me the prologue the excellence of the writing and I admit even the old man 's story kept me reading and let me get past the depressing details of the limited life of a 93 year old to enjoy the rest of the book.If you love animals and or circuses you will be swept up in this book . It is a charming suspenseful actionfilled violent sexy historically genuine loving softhearted heartbreaking and heartwarming book . I really enjoyed and recommend it . ",3
"It was with some reluctance that I purchased this book . I 'm more of a characterdriven reader than a plotdriven one . Additionally I do n't especially like adventure stories . I was pleasantly surprised since Jacob was such a terrific character and any adventure he encountered was worth reading . This book certainly entertains and it moves so fast . Also the pictures of real circus life added to the story . Two people are currently waiting for this . I trust that they 'll have as good a readride as I did . Loved Gruen 's writing & expect to be reading more of her books . ",3
"Loved the story and style . I couldnt put the book down and finished it in a couple of days . Every page made for compelling reading . An easy book to read . ",4
"This book have many interesting characters and kept you interested in their development . It was an interesting time of depression and the importance of the trains . I did n't know much about the life of a traveling circus but found the class system believable and interesting.Great ending . ",4
"This is a 300 page book which took about 200 pages to grab me . It felt like the first 23 of this book just created background letting us know the various characters in the circus and giving us a sense of life in that traveling circus of the 1930s . All of this was well written and interesting but there was not much of a story until the final 100 pages or at least it never grabbed me until then . I did n't start to really care about the narrator until then . Those final 100 pages were great fun and I loved the ending of this book . I recommend this book but can not quite give it four stars when I spent most of the book waiting for things to pick up . If you read this just sit back and enjoy the good portrait of circus life in the depression . Do n't be impatient like me . Eventually this picks up steam and delivers so well . The ending is one of the best I have read in so long . ",2
"Why bother chiming in with review number 1605 ? The verdict is in . Most readers at least those who post reviews love this book . Everybody who told me to read it five or six reader friends guaranteed enjoyment . I like those guarantees . Unfortunately there 's no such thing.Good things about Water for Elephants Atmosphere Period detail a rundown traveling circus from 1931 Old man 's voiceNot so good things about Water for Elephants Runofthemill imagery . Examples His eyes drill into Marlena . His temple pulses . Flailing my arms like a windmill . I blush so hard my scalp prickles . Really ? The roustabouts once roused run about like headless chickens . The terrain is as dry as a bone . I leave though every bone in my body screams against it . There 's not too much doubt about where the story is going even from early on . We know Jacob will be successful despite predictions he wo n't last a week . Tension is low throughout . Protracted scenessuch as Lucinda 's funeral and the long striptease scene at the beginning . To what end ? Perfect characterstoo perfect . The sadistic hothead . The charming circus girl . Etc.In the end the good things about the book were buried under the weight of the notsogood . I left feeling like I 'd been chewing on something tempting and sweet but ultimately unsatisfying like cotton candy . ",1
"This book is nice . It gives you a feel on how live was during the depression and also a great insight of the workings of a circus in the 30s . I enjoyed this book a lot . The characters are great and I am looking forward to read more books by this author . ",3
"This is not the bestwritten book you 'll ever read it 's sentimental and morally simplistic but it 's very entertaining . Good parts The depiction of human and animal life in a seedy Depressionera circus is fascinating . The implausible adventures of the protagonist Jacob a veterinary student who joins the circus Marlena the married acrobat he loves the circus animals in Jacob 's care and the oddball desperate circus folk keep you in suspense and turning the pages . Gruen risks ridicule with her overthetop romantic ending which I wo n't give away but there 's something endearing about her having taken that risk . Bad parts The admittedly engaging human characters are too onedimensionally virtuous or nasty . Gruen though she capably creates a world in which you can immerse yourself and carries the story along at a good clip is no literary stylist . I did not care for the bookend device of beginning and ending the story with Jacob looking back on his life from a nursing home . If I were rating this on writing quality I 'd give it two stars . Because the story is so darned much fun and I love to read about animals I gave it four stars . Highly recommended for long flights crowded commuter trains and buses or outside on a hot day . ",3
"Nothing more satisfying than a novel with a pleasing ending and this one does just that it makes the reader feel content.The story is believable has you cheering despairing and crying for the antagonist and protagonistand can be thoroughly enjoyed by both men and women.The story takes the reader on a journey of a man who in the midst of his veterinary college training ends up hopping a circus train and changes his path dramatically . It is told through the memory of the 90+ year old man who lived it and is recalling it from his current life in a nursing home.I rarely read books twice but this is one I would revisit ! ",4
"The author gives a detailed wellresearched view of the life of the circus people . The hierarchy is particularly interesting . The photos really added to the book.My father is 90or 93 ? so Jacob 's thoughts and fears were particulary heartwrenching . I loved the ending and wish a similar ending for every 90something I know . ",4
"Truly a captivating story . Rich in history of the early days of circuses . She also captures the essence of the elderly and how they are often treated . Would recommend this book . ",3
"Gruen 's novel is the story of one man 's life . It is presented both as a recollection of a 93 year old man reflecting on his youth as well as the current story of the matured man . The central story revolves around a character that drops out of school after a family tragedy . Being the depression and few work opportunities available the character finds himself working with a circus . The author clearly researched the subject and provides historical photos to provide the reader assistance with the visualization . Overall the book was enjoyable up until the last chapter . I feel like I would have been much happier if the author left this chapter off all together as it in implausible and affected my entire view of the book . ",2
"I was so sad when I finished reading I wanted to keep on reading ! ! ! Great story very fast read and very eay too ! Enjoy ! ! ",4
"Loved every minute of it could n't put it down ca n't wait to see the movieI highly recommend it you wo n't be disappointed ! ",4
"I 'd never read anything by Sarah Gruen before and I 'd heard a lot of hype about this book due to the release of the movie . I decided to hold off watching the film until I 'd had a chance to see for myself how the book was.I 'm so glad I waited.This book had me from it 's opening pages all the way to the close . The descriptions of life in a traveling circus were gritty and made me feel as if I were really on that train traveling with Jacob Walter and Camel . Ms. Gruen 's character developments were also incredible and as a writer myself I found myself wishing I had one iota of her talent for bringing them to life so vividly.The story is well paced with just hints from the elder Jacob as to how his life turned out . I liked the transition from old voice to young and felt as if I could see the character both ways.All in all a fantastic read ! Nephilim ",4
"I ordered this book for my kindle wireless the book was a great read I enjoyed it very much read it ",4
"I had been waiting to read this for some time and our book club read it . It arrived in a timely manner and in great condition for a used book ! ",4
"Jacob Jankowski is spending the final years of his life in a nursing home . Often ornery and illbehaved he remembers the past when he ran away to join the circus during the Great Depression . As Jacob turned twentyone he was in his final year as a veterinarian at Cornell University . Unexpectedly his parents died in a car crash turning his world upside down . Unable to concentrate he walks out of his final examines only to find himself jumping a circus train . Lacking a veterinarian the Benzini Brothers circus is quick to utilize his talents . In between taking care of the myriad of animals he falls in love with Marlena a circus performer . Marlena 's husband August is a paranoid schizophrenic who flies into bouts of madness and brutality.This book was fun and engaging . Yet it had its dark moments and suspenseful periods which kept the plot interesting . Gruen researched the area of circus life in great detail and transfers the reader to a different time and place . Overall I give this book a 4 out of 5 . ",3
"Very unique story about life in the circus . Very well written with a great ending . ",4
"I bought this book read about 3 chapters but then got another book..the 3rd in a series that I 'd read the 1st 2 of . Decided to finish that series but am anxious to get back to Water For Elephants . I like what I 've read so far and many friends have told me they liked it and think I will too . ",3
"I loved this book . I 'm especially drawn to the idea of a person in a nursing home looking back over his life . It was well written and the circus life was interesting . Great read ! ",4
"What a WONDERFUL book about a slice of American life that not many people know about . What was circus life like during the Depression ? Do n't let the topic discourage you from reading this book . I was captured by the first line I am ninety . Or ninetythree . One or the other . As I was reading this book I could see the whole story play out in my mind as the author easily transitioned the storyteller from the present day back to the 1930 's and his life on a circus train . I ca n't say enough good things about this book . Read it.It 's a true winner ! ! ! ",4
"The story the people and of course the animalsyou will not want to put this down..take the time.you will not be disappointed ",4
"Did I only read this because it is supposed to have been a NaNoWriMo book ? Yes . Does Sara Gruen mention that fact ANYWHERE in the book acknowledgments on her website or in interviews ? No . Although she does n't contradict the claim which has been made very publicly by one of NaNoWriMo 's founders . Was it still worth the read ? Meh . I do n't know . I guess . Whatever . It was n't a waste of time to read it but it did n't enrich me or leave me with any lingering thoughts or feelings about the book . As a matter of fact I barely remember what it was about I want to say circuses ? . All in all it was a zero balance book . Some good footnotes though . I 'd definitely recommend those.For more reviews please visit my blog CozyLittleBookJournal . ",2
"I sat down to just get a start on Sarah Gruen 's new novel Water for Elephants and I did n't look up until I was a third of the way through the book ! It 's delightful interesting suspenseful and a unique and wellresearched look into depression era circus life.And may I say further just to pique your interest it has a PERFECT ending . What a treat . ",4
"OK it 's not fine literature so critics would you please lighten up ? but it was lots of fun a glimpse into the era and life of the circus . I honestly could n't put it down and felt good when it ended . Will this be on my list of alltime favorites ? No but I appreciated the author 's research into the topic I learned something and enjoyed myself . What more could I want from a beach read ? ",2
"Life behind the scenes at the circus was crude and inhumaneI will always view it differently ! The 90 year old man telling the story reacted the same way I would havestomach distress . Should be rated R for sexual and other graphic language . I do not reccommend it for sensitive caring women . ",1
"Very good book . ",4
"I am still reading this book and can hardly put it down to go to bed at night ! I like a book that makes me turn off the TV to read which this one is doing for me . I ca n't wait to finish and then watch the movie . I do recommend this to others . ",4
"This book was easy to read and very interesting . It had a circuslike atmosphere in it 's storytelling and enlightened me to that world.I recommend it for those who are looking for fun entertainment with interesting different characters . ",3
"Life in the circus during the Depression is probably depicted very accurately times were hard and people were desperate . The circus setting for the book is excellent but in my opinion the plot is somewhat weak and the ending was less than I had hoped for.As others have described the scenes vary from life in a nursing home to Jacob 's past life in the circus . I actually liked that juxtapostion and felt it was done well . I loved the pictures in the book and felt they added a lot . In short not a bad read just not as gripping as I had hoped it would be . ",2
"I read this book in two days . I could n't put it down . Very interesting characters and a great character study of the main character . The ending will surprise you ! ",4
"I could n't put this book down . I loved it . There was just such wonderful imagery ! ! Great book . Do n't miss it.M . White ",4
"I enjoyed the book rather than the movie . The author well compared both Jacob in youth and in his ninty . Also the book was well described the story and I could grasp the episodes and the feelings of characters . One thing that did not satisfy me was that both movie and the book had less scenes that described Jacob with Marlena and the elephant Rosie . I wanted them together a lot . ",3
"While I enjoyed the beginning of the storyI could not get through this book due to the animal abuse I am an animal lover ! Even though it 's a work of fiction I just did n't like that ! ! ! Plus Marlena 's character was flatboring and left a lot to be desired ! ! ! The movie is WAY better ! Save yourself the timeand do n't bother . This book was made to be WAY more of a big deal then it actually is . ",1
"Water for Elephants is one of those rare enchanting novels that takes the reader into another world with complete believability . Reading this tale makes you believe you are on board this Depressionera circus train complete with all the sounds and smells.A great novel must combine such a travelouge with interesting human characters and Sara Gruen has accomplished that . The New Yorker review complained that the protagonist Jacob was not interesting because he was relentlessly decent . Apparently the idea that some people really are decent escaped the jaded reviewer . Also Jacob certainly commits his share of moral transgressions and is ready to commit murder in the course of his growth into the decent man who so bored the New Yorker.The Publisher 's Weekly reviewer complained of a predictable ending and that 's not true either it took me until the last chapter to see where Jacob 's journey would end and the final twist is a heartwarming one . Maybe that 's what some toocynical professional reviewers really do n't like the idea that in literature as in real life some stories are uplifting ones.I 'm a writer as well as a voracious and nitpicking reader and I do n't give fivestar reviews . In this case though nothing else would do . ",4
"Of the gazillionbillion books I 've read in my lifetime this currently ranks as # 1 . I say currently because I 'm allowing that I might come upon another book that bowled me over like this one did.I hope so.but I kind of doubt it . Be forewarnedonce you crack this book open you will fall head over heels between the pagesand not want to come back out ! ",4
"There are n't too many books that both my husband and I find impossible to put down but this was one . The combination of human drama adventure and historical detail were extremely compelling . We absolutely loved this book . ",4
"The setting is different and interesting I learned a lot about the circus . The characters and their relationships are also very intriguing . ",4
"Romance love eccentricities violence and humor are expertly woven into this novel . I loved it and I was sorry to finish it . It was one of those books which makes it difficult to begin another book . I cared about the characters and the events lingered after I completed it . That is saying a lot about a book for me I 'm a voracious reader and I usually begin a new book as soon as I finish the last . I think it is a book which would appeal to a wide range of readers ' ",4
"Water for Elephants was recommended by an animal loving friend with the comments that the book was a must read . The story is set during the 1930 's depression and takes place primarily on a traveling circus train . Jacob Jankowski recently orphaned is hired as the veterinarian for the circus . Through Jacob 's gaze we are introduced to the inner workings of the greatest show on earth as proclaimed by Uncle Al owner of the Benzini Brothers circus . We learn of the work required to roll out and pick up a circus as well as the cruelty with which the men charged with this work are treated . While the animals performances and circus atmosphere are well rendered by the author I found the class structure created within the traveling circus of particular interest a structure whereby the lowest members of the circus team may be guaranteed a meal but not necessarily a wage or a life . Equally interesting to me is the depiction of geriatric care familial and professional afforded Jacob during his twilight years . Gruen did an excellent job of capturing the desolation of aging without the care and proximity of your family.Water for Elephants is a well crafted tale of adventure love and murder . The characters are memorable and the language easily accessible and imagistic . This is an entertaining read but I must admit it dispelled any quixotic notions that I associate with running off with the circus that was hard and dangerous work then . You were luck if you left the show with your life and even luckier if you left with a life . For this reader It 'll be enough to watch the next circus that comes to town and remember the men and women that whose hard work made it possible then and keeps the show on the road now . Enjoy ! ",3
"I found the title intriguing . I wondered how many buckets of water an elephant drinks per day..I decided to read an excerpt and I discovered it is about an elderly man who recounts his experiences with the circus.I like how the author alternates between the elderly character of Jacob and the young Jacob . ",4
"I had n't watched the movie but had heard that both that & the book were very good . I had just finished reading a book & was looking for something else & decided to try it . It was different than I thot it would be but thourghly enjoyed it ! ! ",4
"This book definitely is number one on my list of favorite books and I read A LOT . The story is gripping beautiful and a little sad in some parts . It 's one of those books that you start reading then constantly stop in the middle of whatever you 're doing to read just one more chapter . The writer does n't leave the reader hanging wondering what happened to all of the characters but it 's not a predictable ending . Read this book you will not regret it . ",4
"Not sure how to sum this up or it my title fits the bill Yet I truly enjoyed the life story of an old man . Sad how people are treated and I am sure alot was true . Enjoyable reading ",3
"Loved the characters and plot and really loved the ending . Not a fan of the graphic animal torture though I understand it was historical and did happen . If you 're not sensitive it wo n't bother you . ",3
"I loved this book . It is a great story that keeps you wanting more . I had trouble putting it down . ",4
"I felt like a bouncing ball in a porn shop rolled onto a circus train ! Between the poor character development to the stampede and the over dramatized porn and superficial sex scenes I can honestly say that I would NOT recommend this book . Oh and during the stampede ALL these animals were in the big tent at the same time ? without handlers ? Why would Rosie be chained in the big tent during a show ? One of the primary editorials states Jacob is the only person in the book who has a handle on a moral compass and as his reward he spends most of the novel beaten broken concussed bleeding swollen and hungover.Believe me he may have started out as a moral compass but he went down hill fast until he had no morals left . ",0
"This book popped up on my Amazon recommend list initally i was reluctant when i picked it up . but i was gripped and read it in a flash.. love drama circus politics all very intresting.. the reviews here are on the money i concur.. ",3
"I listened to this book on CD in my car while driving across country . It was beautiful and sad and funny and completely entertaining . Made the hours on the road pass quickly . I 'm in the car a lot and listen to books while I drive and this book was abolutely my favorite . ",4
"Based on the movie previews I had not interest in this bookstory or the movie . However my book club selected it and once I got past the first chapter I could n't put it down . It was such a colorful story I did n't want it to end . I saw the movie afterwards and it was equally as good . ",4
"I ca n't really say anything that has n't been said already by the other people who enjoyed this book . There 's a reason this book has so many reviews and it 's a good reason . The story sucks you in from the start and Jankowski remains sharp even when he gets older as evinced by the scenes in present day . Jankowski is a wellmade character and the story is as believable as it is engaging . I 'd rate this ten stars if I could but I 'm willing to settle for 5 as it 's all Amazon will let me do ",4
"It was an ok book . although I was expecting something a little more . The book seem to drag on . when it did end it ended very sadly . ",1
"i love this book just like everybody else did ! ! ! i recommend this book to everyone ! ! ",4
"As an avid reader and teacher I have many favorites but this certainly is now in my top 5 . What a heartwarming story . A must read for sure ! What 's even more exciting is I just found out it is being made into a major motion picture ! Looking forward to watching the movie and comparing . ",4
"So enjoyed this book ! Seemed to start out a little slow but such a great book.in the end ! I cried for Rosie Camel and Walter more than I did for anybody else ! Great read ! ",3
"In WATER FOR ELEPHANTS Sara Gruen takes us into the world of the circus during the Great Depression and the incredible lives associated with it . For Jacob Jankowski the circus is just about a last chance that fate has given him after some untimely luck . Joining with the Benzini Brothers to care for their animals Jacob is launched into a world that 's strange and unusual for him and provides the backdrop for reminiscing when he 's 90 and in a nursing home many years later.With vivid imagery you 're taken into the world of the circus and into the lives of these characters . The characters themselves are very believable and fleshed out especially August the animal trainer . His viciousness and mood swings were gripping and his evolution into the bad guy had me sitting there waiting for more . And as the husband of Marlena Jacob 's romantic interest August had plenty of opportunity to be jealous and controlling . Even secondary characters were well formed and fleshed out giving the book even more life and character . Even Rosie the elephant becomes a character that you fall in love with by the end of the book.The author tackles a bunch of interesting subjects and has obviously researched them all thoroughly . From the drinking of Sterno fluid during Prohibition and its effects afterwards to the history of the circus originally as an event for men to get on with their hoochy koochy stuff Gruen provides a well researched take on everything . This research shows and if you 're a history nut like me you will not be disappointed.What I had a slight problem with was the love story . It was very sweet but it was also somewhat stereotypical . Boy comes along and becomes the knight in shining armor to the damsel in distress . It was still a believable romantic and heartwarming love story and it makes you remember that back in the day people thought that women were property of men . Even in the circus with people protecting one another there was no escape from domestic violence.The story in the past and in the nursing home blended seamlessly and the transitions were impeccable . Gruen crafted a well researched and well written love story that though with its small faults was a very good novel . Gruen is definitely an author that I want to watch and read more of.VERDICT Even though it suffers from a stereotypical romance WATER FOR ELEPHANTS is a wellcrafted heartwarming novel that keeps you glued to your seat wanting more of the circus and the atmosphere . ",3
"A wonderful tale of love and circus life written beautifully . I was engaged throughout the entire book and have read it several times since purchasing it . ",4
"After seeing the movie I thought I would read the book . Not only was the detail greater but it was also easier to get to know the characters . A very moving plotline . ",4
"This book had such an intriguing story line that once I turned the last page I practially sliced open the cover thinking there had to be more . I learned so much about what went into running a circus so much about performer life and I realized not much has changed . I almost forgot I was reading a a story I felt more like I was doing amazing research by myself . ",4
"I read this book about a year ago and was truly amazed with the imagery and visions the author Sara Gruen managed to portray . Written as a historical novel it reminded me very much of Nicholas Spark 's The Notebook with the main character being an elderly man and telling the story through memories of his youth.Preparing to take his final exams as a veterinary student at university Jacob Jankowski receives some shocking news about his family which sends his future into a spin . Abandoning his exams he leaves school and hops on board a train in the middle of the night . This train is home to a travelling circus and it 's through the characters he meets there that he becomes a vet to the animals on board and enters a world he never imagined . He quickly becomes part of the family and is soon caught up in a love triangle with the beautiful Marlena a circus performer who holds a particular soft spot for the star of the show an intelligent and lovable elephant Rosie.The novel is so beautifully written and will touch the hearts of all animal lovers . Sara Gruen really did her research into the circus era and the book is even peppered with images of old circus photographs . Definitely worth a read ! See more book reviews at Storybook Love Affair ",3
"I have to say that I was skeptical about reading this book . A friend of mine talked me into downloading it onto my Kindleand wellI finished the book in two days . I was n't sure about reading about a circus but it is also a bit of a love story nothing intense . I found the book easy to read and I loved the fact that the book goes back to the past and then to the present with the main character an older man maybe ninety or ninety three in a nursing home with a sense of humor . I will recommend this book to my friends . ",3
"Not very exciting but a decent read . ",2
"I really enjoyed the juxtaposition between the 90 or was it 93 ? yearold Jacob and the young man Jacob who ran away to join the circus in 1931 . However towards the end the 1931 story devolves into a bit of a soap opera the I did n't really enjoy . Other than that I found it a lively readbut I wanted more about Rosie the Polishunderstanding elephant who everyone thinks is dumb because she does n't understand English . Every moment where she is on the page the book is highly entertaining but I found parts of the book slowmoving and lackluster when the story so lends its self to being bouncy and light it is about a circus Miss Gruen ! . People locked eyes 10 too many times for me . I loved the parts when Jacob is 90~~or is it 93~~he ca n't rememberand his body his family and life in general has betrayed him . If you are looking for some lightweight entertainment and a quick read I would recommend this book . The biggest thing that bugged me about this edition and many other books are the book club discussion questions at the end of the book . These type of questions are too lengthy to actually be part of a lively book discussion believe me I knowwhenever someone in my book group chooses to go this route the discussion dies a hideous death . These questions are better suited for essay questions . ",2
"I admit that I did n't pay much attention to this book until I saw the commercials for the movie yes I am one of those people . I knew I would eventually see the movie so I looked up the book to see what it was about . When I read the many positive reviews I figured I should go ahead and read it before I saw the movie . When the Kindle edition dropped to $ 4.17 I figured I would n't be out much money . I am very happy I did.The story flowed very well and the writing was easy and accessible without seeming juvenile . I found myself drawn to the older Jacob . Right out of high school I worked at an assisted living home while attending college and I was also extremely close to my late grandmother . I thought that the portrayal of an elderly person feeling trapped by the limitations of their failing body and sometimes their mind was heartwrenching yet spoton . In your heart and your inner dialogue you do n't feel any older than you did 60+ years ago yet everything about your physical being has changed and the world around you has changed as well.The atmosphere and the feel of the book was wonderful . I felt like I was riding in that train car along with Jacob and Walter . I felt the hurt that Jacob felt when he was orphaned confused and lost . I felt scared and anxious along with them fearing that their stowaway in their car would be found . I felt the elephant 's fear and happiness . I could almost hear the sounds of the circus smell the peanuts and greasy food.The only thing I was n't 100 % convinced on was the relationship between Jacob and Marlena . I felt it from Jacob but not really from Marlena . I felt like she was a weak character and there were moments I actually wondered if she gravitated towards Jacob because August was so cruel and hard to live with . That is honestly the only negative thing I can say about this story.I think if you are looking for a real romantic read like a Nicholas Sparks novel I would n't recommend this . It has moments of romance but I did n't feel that was the main storyline . I got more out of it from the circus standpoint and the old manyoung man 's life . I will be interested to see how romantic they make the movie I am guessing by the poster commercials and lead actors that it will be the main point of the movie . However I will still see it.I do recommend this book . VERY much worth the time spent reading and worth the price . Probably 90 % better than most current novels out there now . ",3
"I put this item on my wishlist when it first came out because the premise sounded interesting and then I forgot about it until I saw it was released in paperback . I purchased it and was not let down . The story starts a little slow was you try to make sense of what is going on and whose exactly is this main character but it takes off from there and I basically read the book in a day and some hours . I highly recommend as it really is a great story of time past and present . ",4
"# 42 Book Read in 2012Water for Elephants by Sara GruenI have put off reading this book for a while now because I was afraid that I would not be able to handle the way the animals were treated in it . After a few friends read they assured me that I would be able to handle it so I added it to the reading list for a class I am teaching this summer . Boy am I glad that I did ! Part of this book is set in a nursing home where an elderly Jacob is living and waiting for his famiy to visit so they can bring him to the circus . The majority of this book is set in a circus a second rate circus who really wants to be Ringling Bros. Jacob joins the circus and is considered their vet even though he does not have his official degree from Cornell . He meets the circus folk and instantly forms a lovehate relationship with August and an attraction relationship with August 's wife Marlena.Circus life is not easy and this book shows it . Animals are treated as property and receive basic minimum care . There is a huge class distinction between workers and performers . Money is given out in order of the caste system . There are nice people like Walter Earl and Greg . There are evil people like Uncle Al . The most despicable character in this book is August . He abused his wife his animals and his workers . I was hoping for justice and felt satisfied with how August ends up.There is also some not so dark relationships in this book . Jacob and Marlena share a deep connection and they spend time together even though it is forbidden . Walter loves his dog Queenie . Jacob has a connection with the animals especially Bobo and Rosie . Camel gets Jacob a job with the show . There are good people in this book and readers will root for them.A difficult at times book to read it was also powerful . I recommend it . ",4
"i just finished it and loved it ! i thought the author told an amazing story full of details . i never once lost interest . i 'd definitely recommend this to anyone ! ",4
"Excellent old fashioned story telling at it 's best ! I enjoyed every minute of this book from the first page . Gives you a peek into a life one rarely gets the chance to see or understand . The characters are very well developed and so very vulnerable and real . I kept forgetting this was a work of fiction . If you love a good bedtime story this is for you . Real raw human reality quirky and FUN . ",4
"This book just was n't my cup of tea . It was recommended by a friend that usually has the exact same taste in books I do . There is n't anything specific I can say except I did n't like it . ",1
"I put off reading Water for Elephants for a long time because I 'd heard it was about a circus and that topic held no interest for me . However so many people recommended this book to me that I finally bought it and once I started reading it I could n't put it down ! This is a wonderful story about the dark side of working on a traveling circus during the Great Depression . The story is told in flashbacks by Jacob Jankowski a former circus worker who is now in his early nineties and living in an assisted living facility . Jacob recalls the tragedies that led him to jump a train one night and end up working as the resident veterinarian for the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth . There is n't really anything spectacular about working for a traveling circus however and this wellresearched novels depicts the class issues between the performers and the workmen the mistreatment of the animals and the cruelty demonstrated by the show bosses . Water for Elephants is also a touching love story revolving around Jacob and Marlena a beautiful performer who is trapped in an ugly and abusive marriage with one of the circus bosses.I absolutely loved this book . It 's a real pageturner filled with dynamic characters vivid descriptions comical moments and terrible heartache . Water for Elephants will have a place of honor in my bookcase for all time . I highly recommend this book to everyone ! ",4
"I really enjoyed this book . It is uniquely and well written from two perspectives of the same person . You definitely get drawn into the drama of the circus and invested in all of the characters . Sara keeps you wondering what is going to happen next . I do not want to give anything away but I was surprised at the ending ! ! I would definitely recommend and purchase this book tofor others . ",3
"I picked up this book because I wanted to see the movie when it came out . I have yet to see the movie but I could n't make myself put this book down ! ",4
"For years A Prayer For Owen Meany was my favorite book . Until I read Water For Elephants for the first time . I turned the last page and started all over again on page 1 . I read it again after that . I just love every sentence . Jacob is a hoot ! The ending is the best ending ever ! Totally unexpected and totally true to character . I live in Chicago so the Chicago connection was one more sweet moment . It 's just such an all around loving joyful book with quirky surprises at every turn . It made me laugh out loud . I ca n't help it . . . I love everything about it . ",4
"WARNING SOME SPOILERS ! Water for Elephants is a story based on a young man 's life with the circus in the 1930s . Also it 's about an older man reflecting back on his life . That alone should seem to confuse someone but it was done seamlessly . A couple chapters of backstory how it was back in the 30s and a chapter or two as the older man . Doing it that way you get a feel of different personalities of the same man . How he was sweet and nicer in his younger days and grew to a grumpy old man.What I liked about this book was reading about the circus life and the history aspect of it all . It 's clearly shown that Sara did her research when it came to writing that time period . Things were so in detail I felt as if I was there.However some things seemed a bit much . At the end when I was reading the Author 's Notes about this book it mentions all the things that happened in the story were inspired by real events . The thing is though not all of them happened to every circus . It was a random circus here and there . She ended up throwing all of the together in this one circus which was just too much and overcrowded . I really did n't think there needed to be that much in there . It makes it unrealistic to have it all happen.Supposedly there was a romance between Jacob and Marlena but to be honest I did n't see it . I do n't see how she was in love with him and I do n't see how he was in love with her . I expected something to show they loved one another I expected to be happy about it but I was just lost and confused . It was n't until Jacob kissed her that I realized that there was supposed to be a romance blooming there . I think it was then about halfway through the book that Sara realized she did n't have the romance in there and had to throw it in . It was stiff and unnatural . I like smiling at a romance that blossoms . I did n't smile.It honestly felt like they just liked each other because they both did n't like August Marlena 's husband . That 's not enough of a reason to fall in love . Or to cheat on your husband.There were a couple mature scenes in there . Two scenes were more sex related though Sara does n't go into too much detail about that . Well yes and no . The first one is when Jacob is treated to a little something by the circus slut . There were some details in there which I skipped . I just was not into reading that . Sorry.The second one was with Marlena which was just a simple they were in bed together . The fact that one is more detailed while the other is not is a bit confusing . The first one Jacob was drunk and did n't know much of anything going on yet he described things so well . Yet the second one which was with the one whom he LOVED was a simple line . There were no details nothing . I thought if it was going to be with someone you loved you would go into more detail than one curious drunken fling.Which was another issue with this book . The details were n't spread out enough in this . Some places it would be too much while other places there would n't be enough . There was no balance in things.There was a good amount of language in here as well . I do n't really find the need to have so many words in there cuss words . Especially to have the F word in there so many times . It was always F this F that throughout which I was n't crazy about.Though what I did enjoy was the fact that Sara wrote a male 's POV though she is female . I honestly did n't know a woman wrote this until the end . I thought it was a man due to some of the things that were written . I must say she did a male 's pov very well.Would I recommend this book ? Maybe . There are scenes in here that I do n't like and I was n't crazy about all of the writing but it was n't entirely bad overall . ",2
"I wanted to rate this a zero . WHY ca n't there be a minus stars rating . Totally disappointed . Overthe top melodramatic and predictable especially since the ending is revealed in the first 5 pages . AWFUL totally dreadful prose . WHY would ANY publisher other than Harleguin Press pick this tripe up ! Thank god I got this from the library and did n't pay $ $ $ for this.I suspect this may be one of those rare instances where the film version might be better but only if they make the orig novel unrecognizable . It certainly could n't be any worse . I listened to the audio version while exercising and could not reach the fastforward buttonmade my workouts twice as difficult . ",0
"I finished Water For Elephants about 10 days ago and I ca n't stop thinking about it . I am quite a film fan and I often envision novels as a film which to many purists is tantamount to blasphemy I suppose but I can not help it . And I 'm telling you this would make a terrific film . This is the first of Sara Gruen 's novels that I have read and as important as animals are to the story I would venture to guess that Rosie the elephants importance in this novel is not near that of the role that the horses in her other novels have . In other words this is not a book just for animal lovers though being an animal lover ca n't hurt . This is a revealing look at life in a Circus in the Depression era and even more so a story full of fascinating characters and compelling relationships . It is a page turner that I truly enjoyed from start to finish . I am reminded of Thomas Berger 's Little Big Man when I look at the structure of this wonderful novel . As it moves back and forth seamlessly over a seventy year span.Sara Gruen writes an interesting afterword to the novel in which she reveals how she came up with the idea and the extensive research that she embarked on before completing her tale . Her hard work paid off . I really learned a lot about a milieu that I knew very little of prior to reading the book . I can not recommend this novel too highly . ",4
"I purposely read Water for Elephants very slowly because I did n't want it to end . I thought the story was imaginative and magical the characters vivid and Gruen really brought the gritty 1930s circus atmosphere to life . I rarely reread books only because there are so many others to read but this one I will reread . One reviewer said it 's just a notch above standard chicklit and I could n't disagree more . This is literature . It 's a fairy tale for grownups and I mean that as high praise . ",4
"Absolutly loved this book ! Jacob Jankowski is easy to love and provides relatable perspective to situations I could never imagine . Though it takes place in prohibitiondepression era the vivid characters brighten each moment without breaking the romantic and grand illusions of traveling with the circus . Jacob in both his twentythird and ninetythird year did not disappoint me ! Read it and share it with a friend ! ",3
"I loved it just hard to get started . Diff . from what i normally read . LOVED IT ! ! It was a quick read once i got started . ",4
"While the writers style was captivating and interesting from the very first chapter the book became so much more graphic and crude than was necessary . Some things are better left to the imagination . ",0
"This is a wonderful story ! It is all at once funny heartbreaking and thoughtprovoking . I found myself so absorbed in the story that when I had to stop reading in the course of a day I was disoriented for a few minutes before I could deal with my real life . That to me is a sign of a great book . I loved how seamlessly the narrative moved between Jacob as an old man of ninety or ninetythree and the young Jacob especially . There were no odd stops and starts and no chunks of time missing between past and present . And the end had me flipping back to the beginning to see if I read it right the first time but in a good way ! Absolutely wonderful ! ! ",3
"Last week halfway through my own reading of WATER FOR ELEPHANTS I decided to check the customer reviews to see if any other readers were rolling their eyes as much as I was and to my surprise not many were . 300 hundred reviews and most of them were five stars ! What seemed paperthin and kind of ridiculous to me was beautiful and moving to nearly everyone else . Everything about this book seemed like a cheatlike the warning you get on a bag of chipscontents may settleto explain how there are only three chips in a familysized bag . Even the inclusion of the period photographs seemed to excuse the writer for not making clear enough pictures of her own . It 's not just the implausibility of the story either elephant speaks only Polish . If the details are right I can be drawn into even the most ridiculous of stories THE RUINS and THE TERROR come to mind but the paragraphs here are so flimsy usually no more than three sentences long that I never pictured or believed a word of it . I 'd close the book and pick it up a few hours later and have absolutely no idea what had happened . It was an easy read but I do n't know many writers who would consider that a compliment . ",1
"Water for Elephants is one of those books that I 've been hearing about ever since it came out . In an ageold storyline the main character ends up working with a beautiful and charming woman and the only problem is her cruel but powerful husband the twist here is that the whole thing is set in a traveling circus . The characters were interesting the story engaging and not too terribly predictable but I thought my respect for it suffered from because it had been so highly rated I find it much easier to read a book without any preconceived notions of how much I will like it . ",3
"I 'd heard some raves about this book and decided to treat myself . What I found was a reasonably interesting story that was not terribly well told for such a graphic topic the prose was not very visual and often skimmed surfaces of moments that could have been captured with much more attention to detail.I would not recommend this book . If someone is looking for a phenomenal story involving wild animals I would suggest Life of Pi . ",2
"A beautiful love story with a colorful and sometimes tragic backdrop . It really keeps you involved and wanting more the whole time . ",4
"Like Water for Elephants is a terrific work of art . I thought the characters and plot were well thought out and tied together nicely . I plan to put this one on my book club list I ca n't wait to share it with my friends ! You should do the same ! ",4
"I read this book shortly after a loved one who had been staying in a nursing home passed away . Against that backdrop I was very moved by this book especially by the parts where the old man was narrating . I loved the spirited way he interacted with his nurses and the other residents and his inner dialogue as he grudgingly allowed himself to be taken care of . It reminded me so much of the things we would see when we would visit PopPop it made me wish I had more time to give to my relative before he passed away . I also loved how the narrator 's voice sounded oldfashioned in the context of the modern day scenes yet somehow contemporary in his flashback scenes . Kudos to the author for doing such a nice job with character voice.The plot was fun too a young man trained as a vet hops a circus train and joins the crew . He falls in love with one of the show girls who happens to be married to the lead trainer . Conflict ensues and somewhere along the line an elephant appears . Personally I felt the elephant could have been given an even larger role she was wonderful to read about.The plot is simple enough will he get the girl or will she stay with her husband ? My one complaint is that some of the examples the author gave on why the husband was n't a model citizen were n't all that horrible in my mind . Yes he does some appalling things but one of his supposed despicable decisions was well . practical in my mind . Maybe I 'm just a coldhearted monster but you 'll see what I mean when you read the book.Also I felt the 'twist ' at the end of the book was more akin to a 'trick ' as readers are deliberately misled by the subtle revision of a key scene but I am willing to overlook it given the pleasure I received from the book overall.A word of warning to parents of preteens who may want to read this book because of the movie that just came out Descriptions of masturbation strip teases and sexual encounters all make appearances in this book . As a mother I would recommend previewing these sections and taking your preteen 's maturity level into consideration before giving them the book . It 's all fairly tame but it is mentioned . Just an FYI . ",3
"This was an engaging story from start to finish . The author did a wonderful job telling Jacob Jankowski 's story as an old man biding his time in an assisted living facility waiting to go to the circus and as a young adult who after finding himself homeless and parentless jumps a circus train.I found the ending a bit surprising but beautiful all the same . This was an easy read and something I could n't put down . I love it when an author is truly able to bring you back to a time and place and make it so believable as Sara Gruen has done with Water for Elephants.Highly recommended . ",4
"I gave the book 5 stars because I thought it was excellent . I had a hard time putting it down . It is very well written and very obvious that the author put a lot of time to researching the history of the circus . Have n't seen the movie but do n't think it could be as good as the book . ",4
"Water For Elephants is the story of ninetysomething nursing home resident Jacob Jankowski who reflects on the time he spent with the Benzini Brothers circus when he was in his early 20 's during the Depression Era . The story goes back and forth between those two periods of Jacob 's life . Old Jacob is clearly frustrated by the physical limitations of his aged body and how small his world has become while living in the nursing home . Young Jacob joins the circus due to circumstances in his home life that are beyond his control and the story goes on to describe the events that occurred during the time that Jacob spent with the circus as the staff veterinarian.Sara Gruen writes with such rich detail . The sights sounds and images she portrays are all so vivid that while reading this I felt that I was transported to another time and place . I learned so much about what circus life was like during the 1930 's and how disposable both human and animal life were to the circus owners . I was also very interested to learn that many of the happenings in the book are actually based on reallife events . The characterizations of the animals were particularly wellwritten in this book too.This book truly exceeded my expectations and I am anxiously awaiting the release of the film ! ",4
"Cleverly placed in the backdrop of the romantic but hard times of the Great Depression 's wake 1931 this novel describes the weirder world in a stranger time in the notsocommon confines of a circus family.Gruen found a topic and made it extremely fun to read . This reader likes stories and the author either created or embellished great stories of circus folklore reader Author 's Note at end.And amid the story there is a common group of guys who are the comedy which hold the story together otherwise it may be too depressing and too violent for some readers . The three eclectic characters are the foulmouthed hardtempered dwarf clown whose mother sold him to the circus combined with the protagonist a Cornell educated veterinarian protagonist Jacob Jankowski . who falls into emotionally hard times and the old man of the circus family whose overindulgence of jake makes him become a victim of the paralyzing Jake Walk Effect as him limbs wither along with his mind from the chemical 's destructive forces . Each with his emotional or physical scars enlightens the others with dry wit and warm compassion as each struggles to continue to live on the circus train where many mornings are greeted with discoveries of losses of others from red lightings those who are not economically valuable to the family are thrown off the train while in transit at the latest of hours.Amid many stereotypical characters are n't most circus characters stereoptyped by this time ? is the greatest monster of them all a paranoid schizophrenic Jew named August . A love triangle grows between August his lovely wife Marlena and Jacob . Things get out of hand and at one time the author has Jacob think It occurs to me that my conscience stopped me from killing August at the very moment someone was attempting to carry out his orders to kill me . Prizzi 's Honor meets the big top.If there is any criticism of this book it is not anything extraordinary . Some of the dialogue was not totally sharp but few writers can write great dialogue . Dialogue is the hardest task of any fiction writer . This dialogue is very good . Just not great.I also take my hat off to her delivery of the story through a young man 's eyes . His feelings about women his feelings about anger and other items delivered through this book are not reflective of the author 's gender . That accomplishment always amazes me and may amaze you as well.This book is good for trips or beach outings . This is a fun book to read . I like fun novels . I read for fun . I like this novel . ",3
"I must confess I was concerned about reading this book based on the negative reviews but it was wonderful . I couldnt put it down . Engaging exciting and fast paced.This is one book I would definitely say you should not pass up . I actually had this book loaned to me but after reading it I must purchase it to add to my library . ",4
"I really enjoyed the book . I watched the movie along time ago and liked it and I finally got a chance to read the book and it lived up to my expectations . ",3
"Sara Gruen did exhaustive research for her novel Water for Elephants . But all went for naught to this reader . The story never became real to me . The characters were pasteboard figures . I was aware of the author too much behind the scenes pulling the levers . It seemed like a very American book for people with short attention spans.All in all characterization was thin narrative was thin and the whole experience of reading the novel did not transport me to another world . ",1
"Not sure how anyone could NOT give this 5 stars . Just a wonderful brilliantly told story . I LOVED THIS BOOK ! End Of ! ",4
"Water for Elephants is the story of Jacob Jankowski who at 90somethingyearsold relates through a series of flashbacks his life beginning with the tragic events that found him leaving college and joining the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth a traveling circus . The book is heavily researched and that research shows in the detailed accounts of circus life during the Depression.I found everything about Water for Elephants interesting from the details of circus life to the sometimes disturbing treatment of animals to the richly drawn and sometimes tragically flawed characters to the story itself . This is not just a book about human relationships but also about how some of us relate to animals as well . Even if you do n't like circus stories I think it 's possible you 'd still like this book.Water For Elephants is a passionate story of life and love . Because I dislike spoilers I do n't want to give anything way but I think it 's safe and spoilerfree to say that Water for Elephants has maybe one of the best endings to a book I 've ever read . I do n't know if you 've ever watched a movie and been so involved in the story and so content at the end that you wanted to applaud even though no one was there to appreciate your applause but Sara Gruen made me want to applaud . Very highly recommended . ",4
"I wanted to see how the book was different from the movie or vice versa . The movie didnt focus much on uncle al from what i remember and the book sheds light on him and it was good to have that in the book . It was a very nice and pleasurable book to read . Makes me want to look up old circus photos and history also . ",4
"Sara Gruen spins a yarn more than just a circus story filled with memorable characters not all human some at a crucial crossroads and highly dramatic events juxtaposed with the loneliness of old age . Near the end of his life Jacob Jankowski finds himself reminiscing about his salad days as painful as they might have been . He knows life is about the pleasure and the pain you ca n't have one without the other like good and evil . After a tragic loss Jacob finds a home with a traveling circus as a veterinarian and along the way he loses his virginity makes some true friends learns some valuable life lessons and falls in love . But above all this book is about his grand love affair how it began and how it will end . Oh and there 's an elephant named Rosie mixed in there too . I recommend this strongly . 4.5 stars . ",3
"I can only compare this book to the movie Titanic . The way it moved the audience from the bittersweet past to the present and from this we were hooked . The main character Jacob Jankowski is extremely well written . The story is a colorful works of his life in his early 20 's . The Great Depression hits him particularly hard . A student in Cornell University in Veterinary School his parents are killed in an accident . Jacob drops out of school unable to pay his way . In his own world of sadness he comes across a wacky dangerous group of circus folk who call themselves the Benzini Bros. Jacob lands himself a position as a veterinarian . We emotionally become entangled in Jacob 's downward spiral and passionately wish him to find his way through these well written but dangerous group of people . We watch as he hits his lowests points . We see him hit poverty then beaten crying bleeding loved and even see him drunk and hungover . He is truly a rarity in the literary world and when I finished this book I felt as if I made a friend . My favorite character is Rosie a deeply loving horribly abused elephant . I actually had points in the book where I placed the book down and had to take a break because I was becoming so enraged because of a character named August who relentlessly beats Rosie . Some of the scenes are brutal . I rooted for her the entire book as you will too . It 's amazing how such a warm presence she was after the book was finished . If you 're looking for one of those well written classics . This is it . It 'll have you laughing it 'll have you in tears it 'll have you wishing there were more chapters . I have no doubt this book is destined for the big screen very soon . ",4
"Given the number and quality of this book 's other reviews on this site I 'll keep my comments short . When a reader has a book that contains an otherwise unfamiliar setting made familiar though amazingly extensive detail fully developed characters a strong storyline and subtly woven literary themes they have a great book . Water for Elephants is such a book . Gruen 's novel is proof that the combination of exhaustive research and solid writing makes an unforgettably stunning book . This is one instance where the number of positive reviews do n't lie Water for Elephants is worth reading . ",4
"I 've just finished the book and liked it a great deal . Some of the research which underpins the book was outstanding . Depression era circuses train circuses as Ms Gruen calls them being a hobo on the rails the brain of an elephant and the thread about Jamaican Ginger all were fascinating as was the almost seamless blending of the two time periods . Clearly the lady can absorb large quantities of research information and transform that into an excellent novel . She clearly and obviously loves animals . Will I buy the two other books listed here on Amazon ? I do n't think so but I am sure that horse lovers will and should . ",3
"I just finished reading Water for Elephants and goose bumps cover my skin as I type this review . Now this is a good book ! Immediately engrossed I had a hard time putting it down as I read the story of Jacob Jankowski and his reminiscence of days with the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earthotherwise known as a train circus in 1930 's America.A talented writer and storyteller Sara Gruen takes readers on a bumpy and tense train ride through history . This tale defines Americana . There is no evidence of author heresimply narrator telling the story from Jacob 's perspective is he 91 or 93 years old ? . I liked everything about the book but primarily it was the crafting I liked best about this reading experience.Seamlessly Gruen weaves together the modern day voice of this old man a Cornelleducated veterinarian abandoned in a nursing homea.k.a . assisted living facilityand his memories of three months spent as the accidental veterinarian on a traveling circus . Just before his final exams he learns his parents have been killed in a car accident and this is what sets the story in motion . Once he hops aboard a train which he soon learns is a circus train he falls in love with a pinksequined performer Marlena and battles her schizophrenic husband August who happens to be his boss . Jacob a sensitive and innocent soul is highly likeable and befriends most of the animals aboard . Most unforgettably is a Polish elephant by the name of Rosie . But he also endears himself to his roommate a dwarf named Walter and a stowaway named Camel . One ca n't help but root for Jacob through the entire story . And to my complete delight it comes to a surprising and very satisfying conclusion.This is an excellent novel and I give it my highest recommendation . Well done Sara Gruen ! Michele Cozzens is the author of It 's Not Your Mother 's Bridge Club ",4
"Fascinating wellwritten story . I could not put it down . I have not seen the movie but heard it does not measure up as is the case with most movies based upon books . ",4
"This book moved along . It was never slow also a good story.I enjoyed the book a lot thank you ",3
"This book took to me a whole new world inside of me that I never knew existed . I became a part of the circus the nursing home a part of Jacob . I felt like I was with him watching his experiences . It was truly one of the best books I have ever read ! ",4
"I am never into the 'Oprah 's book club ' genre type of books however I saw that a movie was being made of it read the synopsis and gave it a try . I was n't disappointed . What an enjoyable read ! While the ending was a bit cliche it was still a very interesting and entertaining book . The author weaving the past with the present really moved the story along and helped gain sympathy for our lead character . I would definitely recommend this book especially to all those that do n't usually appreciate the 'book of the month club ' type of books . And even though I 'm probably one of the only people I know that is NOT into Rob Pattinson LOL ! I would definitely like to see this movie . I read this on my Kindle and wish I had bought it in paperback so I could have shared it . ",3
"I got really attached the characters and found myself rooting them on . Gives a whole new perspective of the circus . I would recommend this book to anyone . ",4
"This book suprised me . I did not expect much but it has won awards . So I tried reading it . What a pleasant suprise ! ! The writter draws you into the story in the first chapter . Circus and the Depression are not a topics I am usually interested . This book was great . The writter captured life in a nursing home . A old man and what his life was like prior to the nursing home . Amazing story and well told . ",4
"The book was very realistic and somewhat sad . The ending was an unexpected yet pleasant surprise . I would recommend to any reader . ",3
"I literally did not sleep last night due to being as o fully and thoroughly sucked into this book . Amazing ",4
"This book captured my attention from the start . I love how the author melds the geriatric version of Jacob and the younger version so well . The narrator is in constant reflection and delves deep into the emotional states of almost all involved including that of the animals . As the geriatric version of Jacob looks into the mirror he can no longer recognize any part of himself . He tries to look beneath the sagging skin and bruising and still nothing . This lets us know what he is really missing and that it is what a person does that defines them . If you can no longer do the things you love then who are you ? As Jacob finally realizes what he really needs we can more clearly see throughout his entire struggle what kept him so drawn in and how relationships with strangers can be stronger than that of family . Perfect ending ! ",4
"I was n't interested in this book by looking at the cover . It was n't until I saw the preview for the movie and the cast of characters that I thought that I may be interested . The book is NOTHING like what I was expecting . It is an excellent story ! I especially enjoyed the narration from the main character from his nursing home . It gave depth and perspective and revved up the ending ! ! ! ",4
"Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen is a book narrated by the memories of an old man in a nursing home flashing back to his life as a young vet on a travelling circus . Its based in the 1930s when the circus travelled by train into towns to show off sideshow freaks and animal shows.What can I say about this book it just didn & # 8217t grab me really and was a bit of a disappointment . The way it was written was very plain English and didn & # 8217t hold my attention or amuse me with the words . The talk about the animals and circus life was interesting and well researched . But the love story just wasn & # 8217t believable & # 8211 the beautiful starlet falling for the pimply red headed virgin boy & # 8211 nope don & # 8217t buy it sorry ! I would recommend this book for animal lovers young teens and the older generations as it has a mix from both sides of the story . ",1
"I really liked this book . It did make me sad the way they treated the animals but its a circus . I thought this was a very easy book to read and flowed really well . I went and got the movie right after so I could compare the two ! ",4
"This is a most engaging story . I am still reading and have been captivated since the opening page . I took a chance and bought the first edition as well and am so happy I did . Theis work allows you into a very sheltered historical community which many of us has fantasized about but never imagined the speculated on the life from the inside perspective . Gruen writes with grace and compellingly . I ca n't recommend it enough . ",4
"Jacob Jankowski leaves college where he studied to be a veterinarian after his both his parents die in a car crash . Unfortunately Jacob was unable to complete the test to obtain his veterinarian license . He hops on a train unknowing it is a circus train . Through the book we see the different aspects of circus life learn about the people whether they be workers or performers the economics of the enterprise insights to the animals and their training and how tough life was during and after the depression . Innovative story telling provides the reader with the past and the present merging for an emotional conclusion . The story awed me and the book was hard to put down . ",4
"Water for Elephants is a small step up from chicklit which is n't necessarily a bad thing if it 's what you 're looking for . A great read for the beach or a good light read inbewteen heavier or darker novels.As mentioned in other reviews the character development was on the poor side and the plot was pretty predictable kind of hokey . I felt the reading level was quite low which made it a quick read but not the brightest one . Everything was pretty spoonfed to the readerthere was no need for me to think about anything . I prefer a bit more of a challenge . ",2
"I read this book on my kindle a week after watching the movie and I have to say I enjoyed the movie a lot more . They did a number of adaptations for the screenplay that made it work better . Like August was the owner in the movie but in the book he was n't but he was in charge of the animals and Uncle Al was the owner . At any rate the movie was made for a PG13 rating and though there were some mild situations and language it was tolerable vs. the book where there was a lot of swearing and a few lewd descriptions that were n't necessary for the story in order for it to be a good one . If not for the cheesy sexual stuff and multiple Fbombs dropped I would have enjoyed the book more . The story itself is quite good but the delivery of it was lacking because of the language and overlydetailed sexual situations . So if I were to recommend one I 'd tell people to choose the movie over the book . It 's less crude and ultimately a more satisfying experience . The story structure itself reminded me a lot of The Notebook by Nicholas Sparks . ",1
"I had this book in my TBR pile and really was n't in any sort of hurry to read it . Now after finishing it I ca n't believe I waited so long.This book gives me an in depth account of circus life during the depression and of the lifestyles of those who traveled with it . I learned a lot . I however got really emotional when aspects of the book dealt with animal cruelty and even human cruelty to each other.This is a must read book . The ending is also a surprise . ",3
"I endured this inartful trite novel from beginning to end and I 'm baffled by its popularity . Even as a peek into a fringe society it lacks any surprises . Frustratingly boring . ",1
"I laughed cried got angry and every other emotion right along with these characters ! I was n't sure at first but Jill told me to persevere and I am so glad I did . This is definitely a different kind of story with a lot of descriptive scenes and perfectly worded chapters . I was so happy by the end of the story that I did n't even want to get out of the car . I wanted to let it all soak in . Very good ! ",3
"This book is really really good . Well worth buying and reading . Wonderful story very different . I highly recommend his story ",4
"Water for Elephants is terrific . How much you will enjoy it depends on what you are looking for . As historical fictionevoking the Depression Era and travelling circuses of a time gone by it is five stars . As romantic fiction three and half stars . The past is brought back superbly compelling and detailed . The life seems awful on many levels yet at the same time so exciting and alive that a part of you is jealous of the characters living itlike the sailors of the British Navy in the AubreyMaturin series seeMaster and Commander Aubrey Maturin Series.The romantic scenes are less well executed and the author does not well capture the sexual feelings of a 22yearold man . That is a small part of the story though and is more than outweighed by the other bonus the book offers the reflections on aging from the protagonist at age 93 . These are powerful and thoughtprovoking . I read the audible version of the book and the reader for the old Jacob alone would have made the book worthwhile.I recommend this strongly . ",3
"Get your tissue ready and be ready for intense feelings ! I read this book MANY years ago before the hype and reread it again with my book club . It was worth a second read so to have this book as your own is worth it ! There is mystery magic and injustice . The charcters are strongly built and the scenery is vivid . If you are looking for more books like this onecheck out The Dirty Parts of the Bible . You wo n't be disappointed either . ",4
"This story has a circus a villain an adventurer and a love story . What else could a summer reader wish for ? I thoroughly enjoyed this novel . Granted it 's not Dickens but it is great fun.Jacob 's experience as the an old man reminded me so much of the nursing home my mother died in . His experience as a young man reminded me of the stories my father told about the depression especially riding the freights.I passed this book along to a woman coworker and after she finished it she said I love this book ! Sara Gruen did a marvelous job researching train circuses . That alone is worth the price of admission . ",3
"This book was really engaging had good characters good plot interesting structure and a good ending . I have read books that have been very good and then the ending seems to be rushed not thought out or just plain awful . Loved this book . ",4
"What is a life worth ? How do you judge if someone is worth saving ? What does it mean to be human ? What or who is really an animal ? Why can an individual choose how to live but not how to die ? Who has the power to answer these questions ? How do you know that person is right ? Hidden beneath this easytoread though dark coming of age romance is a novel that prompts the reader to ask the above through the reminiscing of protagonist Jacob Jankowski who is prisoner in fact to old age and in feeling to a nursing home . The story begins as the circus rolls into town and the flood of Jankowski 's past full of pleasure joy love hate regret & guilt washes over him.Sara Gruen brings the Circus Culture of the mid 20th century to life through meticulous research both the bright spot light and the grittier nature of transitory existence . Anyone who ever dreamed of running away to the big top or just dreamed of running away should read this book . ",4
"Ok well after reading the other reviews published mere hours ago i just could n't help but put in my two cents worth ! Firstly i would like to recommend this book because i really enjoyed it ! It has been a little while since i have read it but it is a favourite of mine and i would like to add that it is now ranked 62 in the top 100 list of my local bookshop ! so hah ! and i thought it was really funny ! in a good way that is ! I am totally confused by some of the recent reviews that talk about Jacobs morals etc . blah blah blah . I think these people should go back and read the whole book again because i really found Jacob to be a likeable character and think he was one of the few in circus who DID have morals and a conscience ! Anyway this book was moving funny and incredibly interesting i just found the whole circus idea really fascinating and I 'm not ashamed to admit that i loved this book ! Obviously as it got a 4 12 star rating from over a thousand reviews i am not alone i really recommend this book if you like a story that is well written original and not the norm ! Great Reading ! ",4
"I 'd like to think one day when I have nothing else to do but read until my heart 's content which is probably impossible to do btw I will reread every book that has hit my favorites list . Honestly though with all the newly discovered titles authors backlists series etc I fear I 'll never get to revisit my beloveds anytime soon . But when and if that day comes Water for Elephants will be on that list ! I 've never really been a big circus fan reading about them or attending them but I liked the atmosphere of circus life of the 1930s . It is both beautiful and gritty in detail . After reading this I must read more Great Depression era books . I ca n't imagine how hard it was to live in that time period and I find it fascinating and frightening.Bouncing between young and old Jacob 's POV was actually a great way to read the novel . I felt as if I was reliving Jacob 's memories as he did rather than being told a story . Jacob is utterly honest and humble as a young man and it 's hard not to like his character . Harsh reality is thrust upon him after he tragically loses his parents and is forced to find a way to survive without money or family . Normal life is hard but living life under the famous Benzini Brothers ' big top is even harder . Despite elderly Jacob being extremely and understandably cranky I probably would n't want to be around him family or not Gruen does a spectacular job portraying his life and state of mind at the assisted living facility.Gruen actually does a spectacular job at a lot of things . She delivers a cast of characters that become just as important to me as Jacob Marlena and even Rosie the largerthanlife elephant that is supposed to save the Benzini Brothers show from biting the dust . The characters are really the handsdown winner for me in this story . But it certainly was coupled with some amazing storytelling.I think I did n't give this one a solid 5 stars because the ending did n't quite sit well with me . While I 'm glad of the outcome for Jacob I felt the HEA was sort of slapped on for lack of a better term . Kind of like Come on let 's hurry and wrap it up here endingif that makes sense . It 's happy which made me happy I happen to really like Jacob . Maybe a little too convenient for my tastes though . However I have a hunch that if the ending were any different I 'd still have a problem with it . Maybe I just did n't want Jacob 's story to end shrugs Definitely a good thing about a book if you ask me ! As a side note I have not seen the movie adaptation but I want to . Nothing could really ruin the story for me but I 'd hope the movie did some sort of justice to the book.I received an eBook copy through AmazonPrime ",4
"I read this book only because it was on my book club list . I had passed it up many times in my search for a good book to read . When it came time to read it for the book club I was not looking forward to it . All I can say now is WOW ! ! ! I would have missed a great ride had I not been forced to read this WONDERFUL story . By the end I was cheering ! I have since recomended it to many people and they all have had the same reaction . This is a keeper ! ",4
"After finishing a powerful and emotional novel like the Kite Runner i started to read water for elephants . I am at chapter 8 and i am still hoping that this book will turn out to be better . Its written boring so far and the storyline is not making it any better . I know a lot of people will be shocked bout that comment but i will continue reading and i hope that it will get better . So far its quite boring to me.UPDATEWell i did finish this book and i dont know how this book got so many 5 star ratings ? ? ? ? ? ? did i miss something ? The whole story was BORING and I really didnt care to much for the main characters . The old man telling the story was a good Idea but at the end it was simply dissapointing.If you didint finish the book yet then dont continue to read ! From the first moment when he met August his wife we all knew what would happen.so that was not surprising at all.After reading and figuring out how august was acting up all the time it was also not hard to figure that he probbably had a mental problem . That was not surprising neither.I really wanted to like this book and i kept my word and finished it in the hope that it will get way better but . no this book is OVERRATED ! ",1
"Water for Elephants took me by surprise . This book was really wellwritten . Not only does this author know how to tell a story she educates the reader without making it unreadable . She seamlessly wove the main characters story around the unknown story of circus life during 1930s . She offers a glimpse of animal treatment different types of jobs within and the classes that separate the workers the expectations given by towns on entertainment prohibition etc . The research is evident and I welcomed and looked forward to it . The book does have romance but it has so much more depth so I read freely not really anticipating the story between the hero and the heroine.Sara Gruen has made me a fan and has given me hope for modern writers . ",4
"As always the book is better than the movie yet the movie was good too ! The author tells a first rate unique story that had me laughing at various points . There were also points I was in tears . Am looking forward to see what Ms. Gruen writes next . ",4
"Great book . Slow paced but with enough detail and grace to make it hard to put the book down . Recommended . ",3
"I just finished this book after three days of reading and I could not put the book down . It has been awhile since a book has had that type of impact on me . This book was excellent.I never really thought of the circus being around during the Great Depression . Everytime people hear 'Great Depresion ' people automatically think of the soup kitchens and as Ms. Gruen put it 'hobo jungles ' . I was pleased to learn a little bit about the circus during this time period and learn that there were harsh treatments and conditions of the animals AND workers in this book which is horrible because I love animals and people should n't be treated like nothing . I have read a few reviews regarding the volgar and violent content of the book . Let 's face it this is what happened or at least similar to what was so to say . There were no strict enforcements on labor law or even animal laws such as PETA back then . This was life workers and performers thought of it as such . It is unpleasant to read and even learn about but it was a different time and a different world . Just like other tragic times in history wars genocides slavery etc.. As for the volgar parts like the sexual scenes just part of life back then too and I suppose Ms. Gruen wanted it to be properly formatted.This book is very descriptive and emotional has an excellent plot and an unexpected ending . This was unlike any other endings to be honest and I was shocked and pleased with it . The pauses between young Jacob and old Jacob got me too just because I feel sorry for old Jacob and happy he 's able to go back to an important time to him . Got you thinking about the people in those situations who have nobody left and feel like a burden to your family just to come visit.If you are looking for a love story happy ending and action book this book is for you ! Five stars ! ",4
"At 23 life can be difficult for anyone but for Jacob Jankowski a veterinary student at Cornell difficult is a bit of an understatement . Not only has he just tragically lost both of his parents but thanks to the bank he is now broke and homeless . Unclear as to what to do next Jacob starts walking unfortunately a few hours later he realizes he is lost and his feet are covered in blisters . In short he 's no better off than when he started but all of that is about to change when he hears a train is coming his way . With no clue as to where he is or where to go next Jacob makes a decision hop the train and see where it takes him little did he know that that would be the circus . Finding himself knee deep in the Benzini Brother 's most spectacular show on Earth Jacob quickly discovers that his previous life may in fact do him justice in his new one and takes on a job as the circus ' official veterinarian . With animals however comes their performers and that 's where things start to get sticky . Marlena is beautiful kind smart and more importantly taken . Will Jacob be able to control his feelings for the one person he is forbidden from caring about ? Why and how are people disappearing off of the train and what REALLY happened that fateful day when the world flipped upside down and all hell broke loose ? Gruen is very clearly a masterful storyteller . Not only did she deliver a gasp worthy love story but the background in which her story took place was so artfully crafted that after only 1 chapter I found it impossible to put down . The detail involved in creating the grit of a traveling circus while at the same time tacking such issues as the Great Depression and Prohibition was genius and to do it through the eyes of 1 man at very different times in his life 23 and 90 or 93 added a depth and emotional connection that would have otherwise been lost if penned differently . The story as a whole was perfectly plotted leaving zero downtime for the readers mind to wonder off or lose focus of the moral dilemmas at hand and at the end of the day became just another one of those books that sucks you in and does n't let you go.Overalla wonderful book and an interesting peek into classic American history.Happy Reading my fellow Kindleites and remember animals may not be able to talk to you but they can understand you . Be nice ",4
"Sure it is a well researched book . The detail and description of circus life is very realistic and at times downright disgusting . But what else does this book have that made one of my friends rave that this was the best book she had every read . I 'll tell you what.nothing . I partly read this book on the recommendation of friend but I also wanted to read it because it was described as a murder mystery book . A mystery murder it is not and by the end of this book I wanted all of the main characters to go away too ! I wo n't spill any beans but frankly this book deserved less time on the best seller 's list and more time on the bottom of my discard pile the books I will never read again or books that I would like to forget . You make up your mind . ",2
"This was my book club 's book this month . I do n't always like what they pick but I give each book 100 pages before giving up on it . I liked this book immediately.The main character is in a nursing home and the story goes between his life there and his memories of his younger days when he worked for a circus.The imagery is excellent and you can feel the movement of the train as the author is describing the setup of the cars and where everyone rides . You can smell the disinfectant in the nursing home when Jacob is there.I guess one of the reasons I liked this book is that I 've never read something on this topic . It was very interesting to learn about the different aspects of the circus and its struggle for survival.This is slower reading you ca n't plow through it like one of those books you read on the beach but you will enjoy every moment ! ",4
"I enjoyed this book although it was n't quite up to my expectations having been recommended it after finishing a Salmon Rushdie 's 'Midnights Children ' . There was certainly plenty of suspense and interest in the story and the author 's extensive research is obvious . There are some great characters in the novel and it has a lovely ending with a twist . ",3
"This book is a near perfect read . I recommend it to everyone I know . And absolute must read ! ! ",4
"This book was recommended to me a 1000 times just by everybody including Amazon . The thing is I thought it was going to be really depressing a circus they really depress me great depression era . and when I started reading it . an old man in a home . Well I finally thought ok I HAVE to read it at least to see why everybody is so in love with it and now I am one of those people recommending it to everyone ! Sara Gruen obviously has the gift of being a true storyteller she just makes you read page after page completely forgetting your surroundings . The story is original it has a drama and a force that absorbs you into it.If you want to have a great time reading or are looking for a special gift for someone BUY THIS BOOK ! ",4
"I had to force myself to finish this and was continually disgusted with the animal cruelty . Maybe I should have stuck wthe gut instinct that I do n't usually care for historical fiction ? Gruen 's insight into the minds of the aging is wonderful she should have written something focusing on that . This book could also have been about 75 pages shorter and was painfully slow at times . The writing was not stellar I just do n't see all the hype but for the millions that loved it I 'm glad for you just be prepared if you have n't read it to wince wsome of the scenes . ",1
"I just finished Water for Elephants and could not put it down . I wo n't tell you why but please read the prologue at the beginning of the book prior to starting the book.It was such a beautiful story . It was a subject that I never thought I would interested in but boy was I wrong ! Read ityou will love it no matter what age you are ! ",4
"could not put this book down and read it in a couple of days . such a nice story . sad and happy both at the same time . you will enjoy it . ",4
"I take issue when reviewers write extremely detailed reviews of excellent novels such as this one so I advise not to read all the long detailed ones here and just take a chance with this book you will not be disappointed ! I am ashamed to admit that I saw this book in a few different bookstores under the recommended reading sectionstables but never purchased it since it did n't seem to interest me . It was only after it kept appearing on my personal recommendations through Amazon.com that I decided to give it a shot since the recommendations I get are usually pretty good . Thankfully I did and was pleasantly surprised by how much I LOVED this novel ! Water For Elephants is truly a rare find meticulously researched and beautifully written it manages to educate the reader about circus life Depresssionera America etc while at the same time captures your heart with stories of love and loss and the reality of growing old . I fell in love with the characters and the author 's writing style and truly hope to read more of her work she has such a natural gift ! I HIGHLY recommend this novel to absolutely anyone I think people of all ages backgrounds and interests will find something in it to relate to and to learn from . ",4
"An amazing journey filled with brutality compassion and love against the crazy backdrop of the circus life . Beautifully written . You will not be able to resist falling in love with Rosie . ",4
"The book is amazing and well written . I would recommend it to anyone and even advise skipping the movie . The book is way better . ",3
"MILD SPOILERSI 'm a little confused as to why this novel is classified as literary fiction as it 's lacking the strong character development and emotional complexity that most literary fiction strives for . I 'm aware I 'm in the minority but I ca n't honestly say I enjoyed this book . It was very predictable and the characters were wooden . Marlena has zero depthand Joseph is n't much better . They fall in love but it seems more like the affair happens because the author wrote it into the plot not because these were two developed real people whose minds and hearts shared something magical . A few of the secondary characters have more detail but they never go beyond superficial personality traits.The elephant is the absolute best part and once I read that Gruen was inspired by old stories and photographs of real circus elephants and performers I wished she 'd gone ahead and written a nonfiction book so she could really delve into the struggle of the era and the horrible treatment of these animals . She makes aspects of the circus interestingin fact that 's why I kept reading even after I 'd given up on the story having any real complexity or resonance but the whole book is littered with anachronistic language that disturbs the realism she 's aiming for.She 's trying to get at some very deep issues mental illness extramarital affairs spousal abuse the traumas of the Great Depression but it 's all very superficial . She never quite digs deep enough to give these real complexity or power so all of the characters have very obvious stereotypical predictably shallow reactions to these deep issues and I was left feeling a bit like I was reading a kid 's slightly juvenile interpretation of events . Overall disappointing and even a little simplistic . The frame of Joseph in the old folks ' home is the richest and most emotionally complicated part of the textuntil the ending which is utterly unrealistic and saccharine . ",1
"This book was beautifully written . I felt so connected to the characters and the descriptions made the characters that much more vivid in my mind.The content regarding animal cruelty was hard to read for me . I cried a few times as I read them.With that said I think it is beautiful and honorable for these elephants to be acknowledged and their names remembered as their stories are further shared with the world.The details in the book regarding the workers and the environment of the circus were accurate and well portrayed.I felt a connection with all of the characters not just their Marlena and Jacob . ",4
"I adore this book . I love the characters and they are so well written as to visualize them . I like the use of first person narration of the main character Jacob Jankowski . It is interesting to go from the present to the past and back . It really integrates the progression of the character rather than a linear progression . I read this book a couple of years ago but reading it again I found I could n't exactly remember the outcome and was like reading it anew . The character of Rosie is one of my favorites inspite of the fact that she is an Elephant . August is hard to take yet one can see before it 's revealed that he clearly is mentally unwell . The tension of the triangular relationship was reminiscent of the trio in Sophies Choice . Walter the clown and Camel are both very sympathetic characters though Walter 's true nature is revealed slowly from being a crusty mean spirited person to one with great compassion . The historical details of the depression era and circus life is so well drawn as to feel you have been working on a circus throughout this story.I highly recommend this book . ",4
"Loved this book ! It was a reminder of my childhood experience in a small town when the circus came with a definite look at the seedy side of the circus life . The story was filled with the good and bad that exists in every element of society . I loved the author 's style of writing from the memory of a man in his 90 's which also gave the reader empathy for that stage of life . Great ending as well ! ",4
"I loved this book . It was very honest and does n't hold anything back . It really pulls you in . Once you start reading you ca n't seem to put it down . ",4
"This is quite an unusual book but the story is told very well . I recommended it to friends . ",1
"Let me say at the outset of this review that I usually read literary fiction . This book was a departure for me one that I took on the faith of the 1600+ positive reviews . Those reviews misled me I 'm afraid.It 's mystifying why so many reviewers loved this book . It 's not a bad story a fairly straightforward narrative without any literary flourishes written in plain language and present tense . Certainly the author did her research so she could use the right lingo and details . Flashforwards to the protagonist 's current life in a nursing home only provide a pretense for the ending unfortunately . The plot is so thin that until about 34ths of the way through I was convinced there was n't one . Likewise the characters are fairly thinly realized except for the paranoid schizophrenic villain and the intelligent elephant Rosie . I found myself wondering why I even liked the protagonist who fashioned himself as a kind of savior for a couple of victimized lesser players . Recently bereaved the protagonist 's experience of bereavement is completely absent from the book which I found unrealistic at best.That said I was surprised that I stuck it out and read to the end which is why I did n't give the book a lower rating . In all honesty the last quarter of the book is quite possibly the best when the main character finally acts on all his misguided desires . However the final scene disappointed me it seemed a bit too contrived.Light reading this one . If you want to read for 30 minutes before bed this is a good bet because it does n't not require much thought or deconstruction . ",2
"This book takes place back and forth from the great depression present day . I thoroughly enjoyed the story and the characters . I became so wrapped up in this book I had to tell all of my friends to read it and they more or less all agree with me when I say this was a great love story . ",4
"Never thought that a book in this setting would be so riveting . I 'm so glad I read this . I loved the characters and the build that she was able to achieve as the story progressed . The love story was incredible and not with just humans . The conflict escalated to keep the book going and it was a great mix . The narrator stole my heart . I might even read this book for a second time ! ",4
"This book is an easy read a straightforward uncomplicated simple story sprinkled with profanity violence animal cruelty and sex . I think if you like books about the downside of humanity then this book might interest you . There 's plenty of examples of human and animal exploitation . The love story aspect between Marlena and Jacob is lackluster at best . ",1
"I read this book in about a week and a half and I do n't have much time to read . After the negative reviews I was waiting for it to let me down but I never got there . I was interested through the whole thing and wanted to know what was going to happen next.I read it for a book club selection and was happy with the book . Not sure I want to see the movie depending on what I hear about the animal abuse . I do n't think I could take it.Great read and I will recommend to others . ",4
"I waited to watch the film until I read the novel . What a great read . I thoroughly enjoyed this book and was disappointed to see it come to an end . ",4
"What a gem ! Really enjoyed this book so much that I 'm having a hard time picking my next book for fear it wont be as entertaining as this one was . ",4
"I bought this book in September 2007 . That means I had it in my drawer for almost five years and I just kept postponing reading it I bought it along with many other books and it took me a while to read them all then other books got on the way and so on . When the movie came I refused to watch it knowing I should read the book first . And so I finally made up my mind and did it . It 's a great book . I 'm not a circus fan but the love story is precious . It was interesting to read about the Great Depression and how hard it was to make a living . I liked the pictures inside the book . I think they were a nice touch from the author . And of course I rented the movie and watched it after reading the book . Guess what ? The book is better ! ",4
"I was given this book years ago . Looked at the cover and didnt feel compelled to read it.It sat on my bookcase for years.The movie came out and then the books were everywhere.So i decided to read the first chapter and see what happened next.I finished this book in a day.It was such a unique story that was so touching and pageturning ! This is a great read ! That was the last time I judged a book by its cover . ",4
"I never got to see the movie so decided to read the book . I had heard from another person that they did n't like it . But I do n't listen to other reviews and I 'm glad I did n't . I really enjoyed this book . It was entertaining emotional and kept me guessing . Very well written . ",4
"One of the greatest books that I have ever read . I have yet to see the movie but I do n't think that I will now the book was too good . ",4
"The book is okay so far but I 'm very distracted by the horrible Kindle formatting . I 've never had a problem with a Kindle book before but this one is full of gaps and spacing problems . Dialogue is separated by abnormally huge gaps but authorintended spaces intended to denote a pause are the same gaps as the extraneous ones in other words the intentional spaces are lost in the shuffle . This makes the book very hard to read and follow since I 'm never sure if it 's a Kindle gap or an author gap . This was very poorly digitized . It almost makes the book unreadable because it is such a distraction . ",1
"This is a great read one you can devourand I do n't even like circuses . The reviews piqued my interest and Water for Elephants was even better than I expected . Pleasing on every levelprose style plot denouement . Actually you will probably guess part of the ending but it is ever so satisfying . I sat and thought about this one a long time after I finished reading . ",4
"I experienced to this book as an audiobook so my opinion is shaped by that . Also I scanned a few 1 and 2star reviews before I read the book to see what some people did n't like so some of my review is addressing others ' opinions.First the narrators for the audio book I thought did a pretty good job . The young Jacob did a wonderful job using varying voices for the various circus people and I forgot they were all spoken by the same person . The old Jacob 's voice was great for a crotchety old man but still clear enough to understand . 4 out of 5 stars for narration.I thought the story overall was good . I did not feel as much of a connection to the characters as I would have liked and that may be due to the shallow writing that some people have complained about in reviews . I did laugh out loud in the car listening to some of the narration by the old Jacob though I thought his character was amusing.I do n't claim to know much of anything factual about the early 20th century or life in the circus then or now for that matter . With that said I thought the descriptions of this FICTIONAL circus and recent college graduate veterinarian were nicely done . I felt like I understood what the narrator was talking about and how he was feeling most of the time.Yes there was some animal cruelty and there was some sexmasturbation . While I do n't particularly enjoy reading about animals being hurt or neglected I felt that the things they were doing seemed as if they might have been done during that time period due to desperationignorance or that was just what everyone else did . As for the sexmasturbation again I do n't generally enjoy reading those things but I thought they might have been appropriate for the time and characters . How else is a little person going to get physical pleasure in a time before political correctness where his mother SOLD him to the circus to be a circus freakclown because of his stature ? The sex between the characters was inevitable and if someone is so offended by it that they quit the book maybe they should go back to reading Dick and Jane unless you 're also offended by the wordname Dick.Overall I enjoyed the story . Interesting time period good characters and good narration from two different perspectives of the same character . I 've never read any books about the circus and after reading this one I might have to find some others . This is the first book I 've read by Sara Gruen and I have another book by her Ape House in the car and ready to listen to later today . ",3
"If you want to feel the sorrow and excitement of joining the circus and the sorrow of old age in our country Ms. Gruen could not have crafted a better story . The protagonist a Polish vet student of all things joins the circus and therein begins the story of corrupt managment the wonderful animals and the class system among the workers and the performers . The reader is provided with historical information while the author paints a vivid picture of the circus train and its dynamics . She interweaves a touching love story and a strong respect for circus animals espcially Rosie the elephant who only understood Polish commands ! Read it you wo n't be wasting your time . ",4
"When this book came out in hardcover I passed it by . No interest in reading about circus freaks . When the book came out in paperback I passed it by . Still did not sound interesting . Three people recommended it to me and then finally a friend gave it to me after she finished it . Still I waited a month or so before beginning it . Within the first few chapters I was intrigued . I loved the descriptions created a definite picture in my mind . I loved the characters I wanted to know what would happen to them . Although I thought the end was somewhat predictable on the whole I found this a very enjoyable read . ",3
"One published review of this book described it as a romance between starcrossed lovers what an unengaged superficial understatement that is ! It 's ever so much more . Among other things it 's a young man 's comingofage it 's about a test of character and compassion in the demanding cruel carnival atmosphere of both the circus and the Great Depression all accomplished while the death of the young man 's parents is still fresh.You 'll smell the blood & stench of the circus feel the splinters of the train 's floorboards and breath dust as the musty tents slap bare ground at yet another town of rubes you 'll empathize with the ribthin sadness of the mostly sweet sweet circus animals you 'll feel the protagonist 's love lust pain and anger as he makes the choices that allow him to become a man . You 'll see these same qualities shine forth in the 90year old or is it 93year old ? version of the man.I found it astounding that the author of his book is a woman . My experience of myself and my male friends as young men and of my father as an old man in assisted living ring true with the nuances embeded in this book . It 's also evident that substantial research was necessary to give the book the authentic feel that it has . And not only does this book reverberate with atmosphere heart and passion it 's a good read ! The pacing plot and narrative make for a nonstop adventure . Highly recommended . ",4
"It is such a pleasure to dive into a book and read wonderful prose . As a busy busy person who is a reader I found myself stealing moments where ever I could to read this book . The story held my interest on evey page and I learned alot about the circus cruelty and class . Read this book it is delicious . ",3
"Water for Elephants amazed me . It was not at all what I expected . I knew it was about a circus and obviously for the title an elephant was involved . What I was not prepared for however was the cruelty it showed . And I do n't doubt for a minute that even though this was fiction that these atrocities did n't happen in real circuses.We are introduced to a death in the prologue . While it is fuzzy and hard to tell who 's who we are witnesses to a scene that the narrator Jacob has viewed and never forgotten . Mayhem abounds as we discover that the menagerie of a circus is on the stampede.We are then reintroduced to Jacob many years later as he is a resident at a nursing home . He is ninety three or ninety one he ca n't keep it straight and a circus is in town and being set up within sight of the nursing home . This causes him to reminisce about his time spent with the Benzini Brothers circus.As a runaway college student after the death of his parents he finds himself hopping a train that turns out to be part of the circus train . There instead of being thrown off he is taken in by an older man named Camel who secures him a job with the circus mucking stalls which later turns into a position as the circus 's veterinarian.He falls in love with Marlena the wife of his schizophrenic boss August . While he keeps his love hidden August dangerous and unpredictable makes life tough for Jacob in the circus while in his better moments is a best friend to him.He also makes the acquaintance of Walter a dwarf clown whom he bunks with and together they help Camel in his time of need . He also makes an unlikely friend in Rosie an elephant picked up from another failing circus whom he feels a bond with and devastation at her treatment from the cruel August.Throughout the book it cuts back and forth from Jacob at the nursing home to his reminisces of the circus and its happenings . One of the ending chapters recaps the prologue only with more detail.Gruen does such a marvelous job on this book that you would believe she had traveled with a circus . But she had n't all her knowledge came form extensive research and interviews . The result is this novel gritty and real and it keeps you at the edge of your seat wondering what is going to happen . Jacob 's tale is one I could read over and over again . By far this turned out to be one of my favorite books . And the ending well in hopes to get you reading this book the ending was perfect and real fitting for such a wonderful tale . Its well worth the read.Water For ElephantsPublished in 2006331 pages ",4
"This book was engaging and a good read.The story kept me interested & not skipping pages.It was interesting how it flipped from current to past in the chapters.It was my first novel by Sara Gruen . I 'd definitely look for others . ",3
"I thoroughly enjoyed every word of this book . I was actually quite disappointed when I reached the end . I recommend this book to everyone I know ! Water for Elephants A Novel ",4
"This paperback has sat on my bookshelf for two years and last week I finally got round to reading it was I surprised ! Quite simply I found Water for Elephants an exceptional read and one that any reader should not miss . Briefly the novel is during the Depression in the USA and it recalls how a circus struggles to survive . The story is seen from the eyes of Jacob Jankowski an unqualified vet who jumped on the Benzini Brothers circus train one evening after the shocking death of his parents.The action in Water for Elephants is just right more than sufficiently paced to keep the reader glued to the pages . There are flashbacks reverting back to the nursing home of the presentday where Jacob is finding his aged infirmity unbearable but somehow this only adds to the depth of the story.Sara Gruen has created a circus world that 's believable one that you feel right in the midst of and this is carried through with her characters . Uncle Al the circus boss and August the animal trainer are characters you 'll hate . Whereas Marlena Kinko the Dwarf and Camel are character 's you 'll love . Chief protagonist is Jacob Jankowski and I found myself completely empathising with him . His struggle to fit into circus life gain acceptance from his peers and deal with the urges of his love interest make him a hugely engaging character.I highly recommend this book . It 's a gripping story and is one of those novels which will both shock and thrill you . The stark poverty of the early nineteen hundreds is interspersed with details of the emotional deprivation the main character Jacob experiences in a nursing home during his latter years . Yet in both settings a light is shone on acts of kindness which define our humanity and reinforce the fragile dignity of those who are almost overwhelmed by their plights . There is a social history dimension to the story which enhances its value and impact . This is easily one of the better books I 've ever read . ",4
"Beautiful and enchanting tale set in a circus . Excellent story that is beautifully written and utterly absorbing . Highly enjoyable recommend ! ",4
"I bought the audio of this and was enthralled and wouldnt get out of my car for two weeks . I bought the book also just to keep it . An original premise the work reads evenly and there was nothing that I did n't like about it . Pleaded with Hollywood to make it into a movie but probably wo n't watch it as I do n't like the actors as in my head Tom Hanks was the father.Anyway great book do n't hesitate . ",4
"baby boomers beware if you have an aging parent who brought you up on stories about the depression and a relative that joined the circus for work or vice versa that should cover several million people you will enjoy this book.it is n't about the circus it is n't about aging its about life and love.a truly beautiful book . ",4
"great storywell written . I ca n't say anything about the circus parts but the nursing home parts were really close to homeand I about cried at some of that . highly recommended to read this book . loved it . ",4
"This was an incredible read and a quick read if you want something to captivate you for a trip . For fictional history it 's clear the author did her homework . The author took many real events and spun them into the journey of a fictional character through a composite circus during the depression . The story is exciting and hard to put down . The intro leaves you wondering throughout the whole story . Its very easy to relate to the main character and feel what he feels stress confusion love I ca n't say much else without giving away the books little secrets . ",3
"I received an advance reader 's copy of this book and gave it to my neighbors to read . They thought it was ok but no great shakes . But every bookseller I spoke to loved loved this book . So I decided to read it . I love this novel and can not put it down ! Gruen really fleshes out the characters in this book . And what I especially enjoy is the strong sense of time and place she evokes she recreates a real slice of Americana . Water for Elephants is set during the Depression a time long before I was born . I feel as if I much better understand what life was like for Americans during this period and the importance circuses played in providing some escape from people 's otherwise desperate lives . And I feel as if I glimpsed what life is really like in a circus behind the facade of magic and glamour . I heartily recommend this novel to anyone wanting a compelling read even though there were some aspects of the plot that I could see coming from a long way off . The real photographs from Depressionera circuses included at the beginning of each chapter was a nice touch as was the striking cover art . The ending could have been heartbreakingly sad but it turned out to be uplifting made me turn the last page with a sigh that I had finished this fairy tale . I highly recommend this book now I know what all the bookseller buzz is about . ",4
"The quality of the writing is not in question . My problem is that I did not find the characters or plot to be engaging . I did not enjoy the book and have no interest in seeing the movie . ",2
"I would have given this book no stars but that is not an option.This book is horrendous . I can not imagine anyone with a lick of intelligence actually enjoying this trash . I threw it away after 25 pages . ",0
"This is a well researched and reasonably well written bookin the sense I began to care what happens to the main characters . There are serious weaknesses though which are very irritating . Compared to all the prattle about his falling in love at first sight with a woman there 's not much in this book about this veterinarian 's love for animals . He just has a dim realization that he 's got to take care of them because in the midst of all the cruelty he 's all they 've got . The end of this vets years in the circus are compressed too much so the book switches from very great detail of his life as a young man all of a sudden to his life as an ancient in a nursing home ! I am an animal lover and felt cheated that this circus based book was just another love story and all about the people . There are some remarkable strenghts too..Ms. Gruen 's description of the elderly in assisted living is brilliant and moving . Though I enjoyed the book it 's not a keeper and I will be passing it on to a friend without any reluctance to give the book away . M ",2
"I really liked this book ! ! ! This is the first book I 've read by S.Gruen . Now I 'll probably try something else of hers . ",4
"I read this book in a day . I simply could not put it down . It was so dark with just a touch of goodness which in itself was even complex . The love aspect of the story was so muddied and heart wrenching it made me feel for Jacob and for Marlena . How confusing it all was.Plus this story is based around a lifestyle we never hear abouta traveling circus . I loved Jacob Marlena and animals and even began to love Kinko.This book is by far a favorite and so captivating . ",4
"I thourghly enjoyed this book . The majority of the book about the young man in the travelling circus was a great adventure . And the parts with the old man in the rest home gave an interesting perspective . I highly recommend this book . ",4
"I enjoyed this book it was like an interesting history lesson or a memoir and I learned a lot about the horrors of living with the circus in the early 20th century . The relationships were n't as well developed as I like neither were the characters . But the variety of characters made the story very interesting . The concept of Jacob as as old man remembering the circus is a good idea but I did n't like Jacob as an old man he was grumpy selfcentered and aloof . I thought it took Jacob out of character because as a young man he was very mild mannered and pleasant . I do n't think that part made the story better . ",3
"The vivid descriptions of the characters and setting the obvious depth of research the author did in order to write this book the historic photos dispersed throughout the story the fascinating plot the seemless transfer between past and present and the most satisfying ending makes this read one of the best I have encountered in a long time . I just could not put this book down . Amazing all around ! ",4
"I have never thought of giving a book a content suitability for certain audiences rating before I read this one . I would have to give this an X Adults Only rating due to the explicit sexual content violence and language which I found unnecessary for this story line.This story tells a tale of two time lines in the life of a circus veterinarian . It begins as the elderly version of the man who is forced into memories of his youth . Through the story he is transported back and forth between the two time lines . This is the first dual time line story that I 've actually enjoyed . With the exception of the X rated parts . This is a delightful easy read . The author has a talent for description which allows the reader to easily become absorbed by the story line . She has done quite a bit of research into circuses of the past which helps to make the story more authentic . ",2
"Jacob Jankowski is just about through with veterinary school when fate switches things up a bit and turns his world upside down . He decides to hop a train and ends up in the middle of the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth . The Great Depression was just in its early stages so for Jacob having a paying job was lucky but he also found parts of the circus life to be a living hell . As he was just shy of his degree Jacob ends up being put in charge of the menagerie the starring animals of the show.He then meets Marlena the beautiful equestrian act star who happens to be married to August the twisted and manipulative animal trainer for the show.Uncle Al the big boss of the Benzini Brothers makes a habit of visiting other circus shows that fold and go under . There he has his pick of their performers and animals . It is at one such place that he picks up Rose an untrainable elephant . He hopes her to be the savior of this traveling show that struggles a bit to keep up with Ringling Brothers the top of the line . Jacob finds an instant connection with Rosie and the show and his life start to change.The book alternates between Jacobs time with the circus and his present time where he is 90 or maybe 93as he ca n't quite remember and in an assisted living home . A circus has come to town and is visible out of the windows of the home . No one knows Jacobs past at the home when a new resident comes along and claims he carried water for the elephants in the circus when he was younger . This kind of woos the ladies and makes Jacob who is much the curmudgeon by this time in his life very upset and sets off a string of trouble for him at the home.The prologue when read at the beginning of the book very much drew me in to the story . When the same story makes its appearance toward the end of the book it is amazingly powerful . You 'll just have to read it for yourself to truly see what I 'm talking about.You can really tell that the author has a love of the circus and has done her research to bring the most accuracy she can to this tale . I honestly thought when I heard about this book from everyone that it was really not my cup of tea . I 'm not one to just read love storiesI have to have some kind of conflict or suspense or something along those lines to keep my interest . That being said this book does not lack for anything . It is really a great read and I would suggest giving it a shot even if you are having doubts about whether you will love it or not . Fantastic read.hoping to see the movie and also hoping it will not let me down . ",4
"I was torn between two or three stars . I read this book for my book club otherwise it is unlikely I would have picked it up considering my backlog.Personally I did n't find anything wowish or over the top astounding with this story . Besides that it takes place in a circus . It had its moments of course which makes me think that what really makes you like a book is not sometimes the overall story but a couple of scenes that really stand out . And this had a handful of those especially those set in the present time which were the only ones to actually pull my emotional strings which usually does n't take much I 'm afraid and considering that this book did n't stir much in me overall . Not even the traditional ` big twist ' scene riled me up . I actually read a paragraph past it then did a double take on ` oh that was suppose to be it ' . ",2
"I sampled this book because it 's so popular and the price was right . The author 's voice captured me with the authenticity of the elderly Jacob . Literally seconds after I finished reading the sample I hit buy now . One of the most brilliant techniques in the book and my personal favorite is the little jolt the author created every time the point of view switches from young Jacob to old Jacob and it makes you flinch as though you too have been wrenched from the prime of your life into the body of a decrepit codger in a nursing home.The ending is perfect and satisfyingThe scenes depicting cruelty to animals were emotionally difficult to read though . If that kind of thing bothers you you may not enjoy the story . ",4
"This just became My Number One most favorite story I have ever read in my life ! ! period ! ! And I have a gut feeling it always will be . ",4
"KEEP ME SPELL BOUND TILL THE END . I WENT OUT AND GOT THE HER REST OF HER BOOKS . I WANT TO SEE THE MOVIE TOO . ",4
"For all the hype this gets I expected much better writing . I cringed at the fact that the 'hero ' of the story never stepped in to help the animal he loved so much when it was savagely beaten by the 'simon legree ' type circus overseer . It is only by the grace of the writer that the elephant did n't strike out at all of the obnoxious people who let the beatings occur ! Some of the other reviews say much of what I thought about this book and the writing . The characters are thin not lovable not anyone I root for with the one exception of the hero as an old man . That is better done than any of the rest.The interaction of him with the nurse Rosemary is more real than that with Marlena . I do n't recommend this book for those who want good writing . This is rather amateurish in so many ways . I do admire that the author did the research but her execution of the story and the story line leave a lot to be desired . I felt the writing and plot itself was n't much above that of a 'bodice ripper ' . I was disappointed . ",1
"It was good much better than the movie . It held my attention and provided much of a circus background . It was interesting . ",2
"This is one of the best written books I have read in 2006 older people will certainly recognize some of their own life and younger people should see a whole new view of their future . ",4
"This is a beautifully written novel . I gave it to my dad two Christmases ago and meant to borrow it for myself but kept forgetting . I finally put it on hold still in high demand at my local library and had my chance at reading.The story wraps you up and brings you to it 's world . It has been a little while since I read it and I do n't like giving out specifics but I can not find fault with this book.I highly recommend it bc it will remain on your mind for weeks after reading it and you 'll be glad you got to know the characters and their stories . ",4
"i cant believe how many people are in love with this book . i really really wanted to like it and kept waiting for it to be good but it was so boring i could hardly even concentrate . like another reviewer said the best part was the pictures and that says alot . dont waste your time . ",0
"This is a great book . I had seen the movie so knew I had to read the book . I 'm loving using my kindle ! ",4
"What an interesting and enjoyable book to read . It was heart wrenching at times especially the way the animals were treated . But it really opened my eyes as to why so many folks do n't think that animals should be made to perform in the circus . Great read . ",4
"Here are my problems with this book1 Remove the sex and animal cruelty scenes and it reads like a script from a bad Disney movie.2 The main character is shallow and throughout the book I had no idea what made him do the things he did . Why did he join the circus in the first place ? Not once did he mention missing his dead parents his home school etc . Did n't he have any memories from his childhood no worries about the future no relatives no friends ? You never knew what he was about to do next because his motives thoughts and emotions were never dealt with and that 's probably because the writer had absolutely no idea how to do that properly.3 I get the feeling that some people liked this book simply because it was so easy to read even Bobo the monkey would get it since it lacked any depth or complication in the script or the characters . Readers who rate this kind of books with 5 stars have obviously no idea what real literature is.4 The dialogue was poor and so blatantly contemporary that it made me angry at the writer 's lazyness of doing her research properly.5 It was so obvious that the writer was a woman that you could not get it out of your mind even for a minute.6 I 'm no prude but I 'm sure images of the masturbating dwarf will be haunting me for a long time.7 Trust a good old disastergreat accident to get rid of the bad guys for you . That way you do n't get to kill them yourself and become gasp ! a bad guy yourself . I would be curious to see how the main character would get out of all that mess if the stampede had not happened.8 If you owned a circus and half a brain would you hire a 90 year old cripple whith serious health problems who ran away from a nursing home and whom you have just met ? Yeah I did n't think so.9 I ca n't really recall the sex scenes which means they we probably not as graphic as some readers suggest and as for the animal cruelty parts of the novel yes they were theoretically gruesome but failed to disturb me or make a real impression on me because they were simply not convincing or believable as was the rest of the book . ",1
"Great book . Could not put it down once I started reading it . After I finished it my husband read it and enjoyed it as much as I did . ",4
"This was the best book I 've read in a while . My 89 yr. old father lives in an assisted living and I know he has many of the same feelings as Jacob . I was fascinated by the lives of those working in a traveling circus and loved how the entire story unfolded . I will suggest this one to my book club . ",4
"I absolutely love this book . It 's something you can read over and over . I recommend it to any one who wants to live a great love story . ",4
"I enjoyed this book and the trip it takes you on back in time . It was an enjoyable trip for me ",3
"I gave this high marks . Great story . Was fresh and held my attentionwell written . I could n't wait to get back to it when I put it down . Thank you ",4
"It does n't happen often where you are just reading a book for the shear beauty of the writing . Water for Elephants may just be that book.There is n't anything truly original about the story but there is something inspired in the creation of her characters and the telling of the story.The beauty of Gruen 's prose had me turning pages without a care in the world . ",4
"Water for Elephants is an unusual story that I found captivating and difficult to put down . The story is well written and provides a glimpse into circus life and the cruel times during the early years in the twentieth century . I would recommend it to anyone looking for a fast paced story that is a wee bit like Grapes of Wrath but less dark . ",4
"An easy and enjoyable read . A interesting look into an unusual way of life . Highly recommend . I 'll check out her other books . ",4
"The books is an easy read with an interesting plot . Characters are not that interesting and the quality of writing is overrated . ",1
"This book was such a fabulous read . I literally felt as if I was part of the circus . A very charming tale . Totally recommend . ",4
"A very good read ! The story as related by Jacob alternated between the present when he 's already 90 or 93 and during the 1930s when he was 23 and traveling with the circus . It talked about loss love friendship odd and otherwise fellowship family . The book is full of so much emotion that even if I have not been to a circus all my life and given that I am a woman I was able to transport myself into Jacob 's mind and feel the story . I just wish there was more to read after the old Jacob got himself into the circus train again . ",4
"This was a selection for our book group last month and although I 'm glad I read it I 'm carting ASAP it to our local used bookstore since I do n't have the stomach to read it again.I 'll let other reviewers take care of the synopsis and author information . What struck me about this book was the author 's handling of the violence against animalshuman and otherwise . Sara Gruen takes the reader on some kind of amazing highwire act we teeter on a fine line between wanting to throw the book down because we ca n't bear to read another page rife with brutality yet still we are compelled to edge our way another inch closer to her bittersweet and satisfying if somewhat unbelievable conclusion.I 'm interested to see what else Ms. Gruen has in store for us . ",3
"Water For Elephants has to be the best novel I 've read in a long time . I read all the time and I rarely read a book that I do n't like but this book has to go to the top of the list right up there with The Lord of the Rings and Anna Karenina . I had been told by several people what a phenomenal story it was for some time and I decided to make it one of my summer reads since it is hard for me to really get into books during the rest of the year I teach . One of my students was reading it in May and told me how great it was . I refused to allow her to tell me anything about it because I was determined to read it as soon as summer began . It took me a while but I am so glad I finally got around to it.This is a book that is easy to read and really pulls you into the story . It reminded me of the film Titanic in terms of characters . I have to say that if you are looking for a book that is truly engaging and pulls at every emotion you 've got then do n't wait any longer . Read this novel and enjoy ! I did n't want it to end and I ca n't wait to see how the film is compared to the book . Only a few novels I 've read really stick with me for life and this one is one of them . You will not regret reading Water For Elephants by Sara Gruen . ",4
"This book is an absolute must read . I would literally read faster just so I could get more of it read before I had to stop . You constantly want to know what 's going to happen next . You feel like you be one a part of the story and you root for your favorite characters to make it . ",4
"Growing up I was not a fan of the circus so I was hesitant in trying this book . Boy was I surprised . The characters are engaging and the plot was interesting . I learned a lot more about circus life and realize my feelings about circuses were justified . ",4
"This book was so great to curl up and read during the winter months ! It was written beautifully and the descriptions are so vivid ! You will not be disappointed ! ",4
"I read this on behest of a suggestionit was definitely worth the read ! I will definitely check out the movie . ",3
"I loved this book ! The meat of the story is told in flashback form . Jacob a 93yearold man living in a nursing home recalls his stint as a vet on a traveling circus during the 1930s . As a young vet student at Cornell Jacob is just about to sit for his final exams when both of his parents are killed in a car wreck . Sorting through their affairs Jacob discovers that his family was penniless having mortgaged their home to pay for his Ivyleague education.Sick with grief Jacob hops a train . A train he discovers that is carrying the Benzini Brothers traveling circus . Before he knows it he 's on staff as the circus vet tending to the needs of the circus lions chimpanzees and other fauna . It does n't take Jacob long to meet Marlena the beautiful performer in charge of the trick horses and he 's instantly smitten . However Marlena 's not free she 's already married to August a bipolar abusive manager in the traveling outfit . Hence the requisite love triangle.The rest of the tale follows Jacob as he discovers Rosie a talented performing elephant finds his own voice siezes true love and makes his way in the world.This is a great book . It 's entertaining and easy to read but not so rote and predictable that you do n't get a kick out of it . Details of circus life in the 1930s are colorful and rich . Plus the characters are great . ",3
"I 'm going to stop writing reviews if you keep making me write a certain number of words for it to be valid . ",4
"It 's a pretty good book some parts can get boring but over all it was a good read . Would recommend it to people who like a story that follows a good plot.. ",3
"I think this is one of the first books I 've given a five star rating since I started my blog . Quite honestly the goodreads synopses does the book no justice because what this book isis no less than amazing . Everyone is entitled to their opinion but mine happens to be that this is one of my all time favorite books . My compairison to the movie almost ruined the book for me but I 'm glad that I was able to get past it.The beginning of the book is very misleading and it really made me dislike Marlena the leading lady of this books . It is Marlena who begins an affair with Jacob our hero only they do n't sleep together until its already been assumed by other people that they were indeed together . I did not like her one bit until the end.One of the most charming aspects of this book is how it flips between young Jacob as he works on the circus with the animals and then back again to him 90 or 93 he 's not quite sure . I thought that the switch between the two worlds is great because on one side you see this young man who has his whole life ahead of him and then you see where he is today.I loved when he talked about the animals and how he took care of them . Once he mentioned that he was a vet student you can tell that he is going to work in the capacity of vet to the animals . I hated how the animals were mistreated by August especially Rosie who was the lovable elephant . Although Rosie seems stupid she proves to be a lot smarter than anyone thought.Most of the characters have redeeming qualities that although they are rough around the edges you ca n't help but feel for them . Walter and Camel Jacob 's two bunkmates are no exception to that characterization . Walter a midget clown and his dog Queenie are very mean at the start until a prank makes Water soften up on the new guy . Camel was the one that helped to get Jacob a job on the circus to begin with.What made the book for me was also the ending and although you can interpret it two ways I chose to see it as an old man who is n't ready to settle down into a nursing home and so instead he moves forward with his life on board with another circus . ",4
"I was amazed surprised and entertained while reading this book who ever thought about life in a traveling circus ! not me that 's for sure . Along the entertainment value the facts the history the research was superb.I look forward the movie even the author and her family will have a cameo . ",4
"Loved the main character Jacob . Have to watch the movie again but definitely do n't remember this ending . Loved the author interview at the end also so insightful as to how and why she wrote this book . Definitely have and will recommend . ",4
"This was a beautiful book with a sweet ending . Definitely some beauty in the memories the main character reminisced on and the reader can get hooked . ",4
"I just finished reading this book tonight and all I can say is that I do not understand what all the hype was about over the bookmovie . I could not get into this book at all and could not wait to finish it . If I was n't the type of person that had to finish all the books I started I would not have even bothered with this . ",0
"I saw the preview for the movie and decided I would like to read it before I watched and I must say the book was better ! ! Gruen grasps your attention from the first page til the very end of it.. I would definitely recommend reading the book i enjoyed it thoroughly and will definitely be looking for more by Gruen ! ",4
"I picked up Water for Elephants on a whim because I liked the title and the premise was cool Oldtimey circus workers rescue a trained elephant from cruelty . I understood that while the story was fiction the author did some research and incorporated several reallife incidents . So based on this I actually crossed the threshold of a physical Barnes & Noble picked Water for Elephants off a wooden shelf and presented my plastic card to a human cashier . For all this effort I truly hoped the novel would be superb . In some ways it was . But overall no.Water for Elephants is the story of the struggling Benzini Brothers circus for which the main character and narrator Jacob Jankowski works as a veterinarian . Jacob falls in love with Marlena a kind and beautiful performer . Unfortunately Marlena is married to the violently temperamental animal trainer August . When the circus acquires an elephant Jacob and Marlena struggle together to defend the sweet pachyderm against August 's rages . The story divulges the slimy underbelly of circus life including gross mistreatment of both human workers and animals right up to the stunning climax when Marlena ends August 's reign of terror.Gruen alternates the novel 's setting between a contemporary nursing home where 93yearold Jacob now lives in a state of semidementia and the 1931 traveling circus . In the nursing home as Jacob waits for his family to escort him to a modern circus he wafts in and out of lucidity and mentally revisits his old Benzini Brothers days . Although the flashback technique feels a little worn and in Gruen 's hands contrived it does set up a finely constructed and sentimental ending which is one of the novel 's strengths.Aside from the tender conclusion the story itself has other redeeming qualities . The plot is engaging enough to keep you reading especially as it nears the climax . Also Gruen exposes the abuses that occurred in depressionera circuses and which I fear probably still exist to some extent . Several scenes are emotionally excruciating but responsible consumers should be aware of ugly realities.Unfortunately Water for Elephants also disappoints . First the characters are shallowly constructed . I did n't walk away with a lasting identification with any of them and in fact by the time I wrote this post I had to look up all of their names . Also Gruen 's writing style is flat and unmemorable . While the premise was promising her blas & eacute rendering diminished what might have been a great novel in the hands of a more skilled wordsmith.If you care about animals you want a good story and you 're not a finicky reader then step right up ! Water for Elephants will entertain and amaze and it may even spur you to reconsider your attitude toward traveling animal shows . But if you 're hungry for something profound and beautiful then move along folks . There are lots of bigger better shows out there.You can find more of my book reviews at ninasbookieblog.blogspot.com . ",2
"Water for Elephants is an interesting look into train circuses of the early 20th century . It will captivate you from the beginning and hold you through to the end . ",4
"I really learned a lot about the circus the good and bad parts and have such a great appreciation of all of the work that goes on behind the scenes . Plus giving the characters a real life and personality made it all the more interesting . I loved Rosie the elephant such humanness in her attitude and loving nature . I liked the way as an old man he was able to reflect and recall his vivid youth working in the circus . ",4
"Okay I 'll admit I was drawn to this book by the upcoming movie previews and like most I had to read it prior to the films release.There is no way the written word will outshine the movie this time . It ca n't and wo n't even come close . The character 's alone Reese Witherspoon and Robert Pattinson will redeem the satirical shallowness and cliched style simply with their screen presence.As with many of the comments already noted this book is just not believable . I can totally comprehend how Rosie an ginormous creature can pull a stake from the ground okay even sneek away for a drink or two or ten . But please pulling the stake and splitting a skull in the midst of such chaos ? ? ? I think a more realistic death for him would have beendeath by stampede ! But more importantly at least for me I would love a comment from ANYONE who can tell me how the Bible 's story of Jacob Genesis was incorporated into this novel ! Did I miss something ? ? ? I just do n't get it ! I say ! ",1
"Jacob Jankowski is a student at Cornell Veterinarian School . He gets the heartbreaking news that his parents have died in a car crash . In the throes of the great depression Jacob finds out there is nothing left of their estate . He tries to finish his exams but can not . Jacob takes the next train out of town . Inadvertently he finds himself on the Benzini Brothers Circus train . Jacob is hired on and becomes immersed in the circus life . He also falls in love with Marlena one of the star performers married to August the equestrian trainer . Jacob is telling his story some 70 years later as a 93 year old patient in a nursing home . Present day happenings are interspersed with his memories of life back in '31 . The circus chapters start with historical photographs lending to the authenticity of events . Mesmerizing writing fascinating characters and actual documented circus events combine to make this an exceptional novel to enjoy ! ",4
"Pluses This novel is well constructed and wellwritten with the exception of a few too many outrageously long eyelashes describing the elephant and the main characters welldrawn . The pace of the plot and the use of flashbacks work very well and speed things smoothly along . The sensitivity between nursing home resident Jacob and favorite nurse Rosemary is beautifully portrayed and Jacob 's observations in the nursing home seem right on target.Minuses 1 Not enough solid background research into the psyche of the lead character Jacob as an almostveterinarian moreover he is also son of a veterinarian . There were passages where his feelings for and about animals were almost entirely ignored . In general there would have been more solid creativity if the author had explored and deepened the relationship of the vet with the animals . I was expecting Jacob to develop a very deep understanding of at least the elephant leading to a very strong bond etc . He goes through the motions but I never believe he really understands the elephant and this is one of the most important parts of the story.2 Conversely too much attention is given the runofthemill sexual awakening and human love story of the main character . I do n't mind that it 's part of the novel but I was expecting a deep enchanting bond between human and animals which would set the novel apart from the hohum . For me this borders on a Romance Novel and should be advertised as such.3 There was just barely enough information about the circus to hold the story up and there could have been richer texture by beefing up the details about circus life.Summary If you happen to have read Waller 's The Bridges of Madison Countyanother book that caused a big stir even though it was basically a romance novel as well as a perfect gem of a book called Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistlestop Cafe Fannie Flagg 's masterpiece that was almost as good on film and if you 've read Berger 's Little Big Man one of the most creative uses of the flashbacks of an very aged man not so good on filmput these 3 together and you can imagine what Water for Elephants is like.Better yet if you have n't read Fried Green Tomatoes or Little Big Man GO READ THOSE INSTEAD of Water for Elephants . And if you 're interested in the circus I recommend Bruce Feiler 's Under the Big Top . ",3
"The story was good but had too many swear words for my taste . The circus storyline was very interesting ie how a circus works what happens behind the scenes etc . I was also surprised to find a good description of getting old . If you 're interested in reading just that part of the book skip the chapters with pictures at the beginning . In doing so you 'll also skip most of the foul language.I 've given this book 3 stars but it really should be 2 and a half . ",2
"It took me a long time to pick up Water for Elephants because I 'm generally not a fan of the same type of books that seem so popular . I was hesitant when I first bought it and was n't expecting much . I was pleasantly surprised when I dove into it I could n't put it down . I 've heard a lot of people complain that this falls short of real circus life but I can tell you it 's as close as I 'm sure you 'll ever get in this day and age unless you talk to someone who worked back then . I can tell you from experience that circuses and carnivals have changed very very drastically from their old days . While I ca n't say I 've traveled on a circus I have grown up on a carnival that has been in my family for decades . The stories passed down from earlier times the pictures taken etc tell a very different tale from the modern day carnivals . I 'm sure Water for Elephants is the same way . Sara Gruen is a favorite author of mine since I read her horse series years ago . I was sucked into this book from the beginning and was very pleasantly surprised by the way things progressed . There was never a dull moment in the book though it was easy to guess what was happening next during most of it . It was a surprisingly dark book but it was done in a way that did not make it terrible to read . The characters were interesting and engaging though the love between the two main characters seemed rushed and sloppy . I would have rather seen a longer book with more development between them but I ca n't complain too much . It was an exciting though easy read and I recommend it to anyone who is a fan of romance or simply interested in an oldtime circus setting . I only hope the movie turns out as good as this book though my hope is not high . ",3
"I avoided reading this book for a long time because I feared it was over rated I was wrong . Well worth the read . Good story easily connected to the characters loved every minute of it.For those who compared this book to HBOs series Carnival very very wrong . general story the characters theme nothing the same . I was an avid watcher of the 'Carnival ' the whole black magic thing loved it . 'Water for Elephants ' has none of that . Comparing the two stories would be like comparing movies 'The Hangover ' and the HBO series 'Empire Boardwalk ' and the common trait is they both have gambling and take place in a gambling city not event he same city . 'Carnival ' and 'Water for Elephants ' only common thread is that take place in the same time in history and based on traveling entertainers not even the same type of traveling groups.My big regret is not finishing the book before they announced the movie and who was playing the characters but that 's not the books fault . ",4
"When someone recommended this book to me I thought they said Waterford Elephants . I thought it might be about China collectible elephants . Seriously though this book was fabulous . I could n't put the book down . ",4
"I 'm not picky about my books really ! I read airport books ! I read mystery novels ! But about halfway through Water for Elephant 's 2dimensional unrealistic characters ' bad soap opera conversations became too tedious and repetitious . I slogged through anyway . I was waiting for more elephant plot . But no Ms. Gruen got even lazier at the end . Anything and anyone that might have been considered a loose end gets killed off without regret . Mr. Major Character W ? We threw him off the train 30 minutes ago . Probably ! ! died . Do n't worry about it.I was disappointed . ",1
"As avid readers there are times when we are apt to encounter books that continue and linger in our minds once read . For me Water for Elephants was a serendipitous find and I truly and lovingly enjoyed this novel . It 's one of those books that you never want to end . There is reason why this book has been on the NY Times bestseller list for more than 12 consecutive weeks . As many reviewers have already recounted the summary I will simply say just READ IT ! I promise you will be searching for more of Sara Gruen 's novels . BTW Apehouse is the next novel to be released ! ",4
"spoiler alert Like many people before me I picked up this book after having seen and enjoyed the movie . This is one rare occasion where I loved the movie more than the book but that may just be because I saw the movie first . In some ways this is like an amped up romance novel . There 's so much focus on the romance between Jacob and Marlena but she has the personality of a wet napkin so I really do n't get the appeal . When I read the negative reviews for this book a lot of people made issue with the graphic and frequent sex scenes it made me somewhat hesitant to read it but those concerns were unfounded . There was some sex and some thoughts of sex and some lit nips BUT the story is being told by a sexdeprived geriatric a horny teenage VIRGIN ! If anyone was shocked that a 19yo was obsessed with scoring a little trim they should walk directly off the nearest cliff . It was a bit more detail than necessary but I 've read sex scenes that made me cringe from the details and this was n't that . If I had to list my own personal complaints I would start with the ending that was literally my biggest issue with this novel . There are some big gaping elephant sized holes my friends . I mean what did they do stand around Bumpuckey West Nowhereland with 12 horses and and elephant for however many days until Ringling could come pick them up ? I mean I get that it was a happy ending the sun will come out tomorrow etc . but the author basically did a Sopranos style fade to black . What about the other animals ? ! Whatever do n't get me started I could go off on an all day tangent . point is there was something to be desired . My favorite parts of the book were mostly centered around Old Jacob he was by far the best written and my favorite character . Curious as to why they cut the Rosemary character out of the movie because their relationship was a nice really sweet . Overall it was a good read I enjoyed traveling back in time to the circus and I am willing to overlook the flaws to take the trip . ",3
"WATER FOR ELEPHANTS gives the reader an insight to the innards of the early circuses It is well written . I preferred the movie . ",2
"I would have never believed that I would have enjoyed this book . Let alone enjoyed it to the extreme level which I did . A well respected friend recommended this book to me so I pull it up online and read the synopsis . Well the synopsis and subject matter regarding circus life in the mid 1900 's did not interest me in the least bit . Suffice to say I did not immediately read it . Only after subsequent prompting from my friend did I agree to give it a shot . That turned out to be an EXCELLENT idea . It was clear and concise reading that gave me vivid images of that era and written with short chapters that propelled me along to read just a little more each time since I was skeptical from the start . The story recounted through the eyes of an old man reminiscing his youth was pulled off seamlessly . It was like reading two stories . Now after reading the book for myself I 'm amazed at the few negative reviewer 's comments . I 'm reminded that some people complain about everything . ",4
"I absolutely loved loved this book . The characters were easy to follow to relate to . I felt like i was riding along like i was a part of the circus ! Jacob Jankowski I am ninety . Or ninetythree . One or the other . Jacob is living in a senior citizen home grumpy depressed and starting to lose his memory . The author does a wonderful job of alternating between Jacobs story of his life in the circus and his current life.The details of circus life the struggles the sadness and the happy times.I highly recommend reading this one . On a scale of 110 this definitely gets a 10 ! ! ",4
"Water for Elephants is a love story . Love between a man and a woman love between humans and animals and people 's love of circuses . All these substories coalesce into one that is set at the time of the Great Depression to make up the background of this book.The book starts with a horrendous scene in which the circus 's animals stampede and a murder takes place . A man 's head is split open by a big stake . The next chapter is in the nursing home where we get to meet a 90+ year old man named Jacob who is in a nursing home . Jacob is lucid and his mind is still sharp and he comments on the other residents of the nursing home who are much further along the path of dementia and senility . The rest of the book bounces around between Jacob in the nursing home and Jacob as the brandnew minted veterinarian.Putting the story in a time line Jacob is about set to graduate from the Cornell Veterinary School when a tragic accident kills his parents . He is an only child and it turns out that his parents took all of their savings and a mortgage out on their house to be able to afford to send him to Cornell . When they die there is nothing left for him so he returns to Cornell to sit for his final exams . His mind is not on schooling and he ends up leaving the school and wanders down the road . It 's not long before he decides to hop on a train that is travelling by and this gets him introduced into the world of the circus as it just happens to be a circus train that he jumps on.Being the time of the Great Depression there is a chance that he will get thrown directly off the train as a hobo but he manages to make some friends among the crowd of laborers and they get him accepted as another laborer on the circus until it is discovered that he is almost a veterinarian . For the circus owner that is close enough and Jacob is now the circus 's vet . Now he moves up in the world and is allowed to travel in a train car with performers and meets the love of his life amongst them . He also meets up with animals that he treats with empathy and kindness and they respond with friendship.He also meets with some of the more zany and crazy people who inhabit that world and none of them are necessarily nice . There is a crazy horse trainer violent security men patch men who clean up the inevitable problems and messes that take place and of course the associated laborers and hangerson who populate the world . Jacob deals with them all in his own way and the story develops in a relatively predictable manner . It is no surprise that the animals respond to Jacob 's kindness in kind and find ways to get back at the people who treat them badly . There are numerous anecdotes sprinkled throughout the book culled from the rich history of the circus world things like the Lemonade Thief the Animal who only understands Polish and the less than legal activities that surrounded the circus.The climax of the story is presented in the first chapter the murder . There is no real mystery there we know who will get murdered right after the first meeting with the man . What is left in doubt is who did the killing . That is resolved in a very satisfying way at the end of the book.However there is another storyline here too . The old Jacob finds out that a circus is coming to perform outside his nursing home and he would dearly like to go back to the world that he left 60odd years before if only for a visit . But would n't you know it that happens to be the week that his family forgets to come visit him in the nursing home . The twist that the author puts in at this point is brilliant and brings the whole book to a double satisfying ending which proves that once you are involved in a world that you really like you never really leave it.This was overall a very fun book to read . Being an animal lover I really appreciated the insights into the world of the exotic and not so exotic animals provided . Of course the whole glimpse into the world of circus life was also interesting . About the only negative thing I have to say about the book is its almost obsessive fascination with human sexuality . There is almost no single chapter that does not have a sex scene in it and it is not clear to me how most of them contribute to the overall story line . In other words I would not give this story to your younger children to read but aside from that one quibble this is a good read . ",4
"The way the story went from present to past was interesting . The circus details were fascinating . The ending was charming . I really enjoyed reading this book . ",4
"This book is great . I was only reading it on my way to school and back . I do n't know how many times I missed my stop because I was so into the book itself . This book is great easy to read and really makes you feel like your there . The details and the way it 's written are excellenttime to watch the movie . Let 's hope it 's half as good as the book . ",4
"Loved this book . I 'd seen it around since it came out but had n't read it . So glad I finally got around to it ! I did n't want the book to end I was so disappointed as the pages decreased and I was nearing the end . Loved it . ",4
"How many novels have you read about the circus ? This was certainly my first and that 's what I loved about it it was something out of the ordinary . The story flowed smoothly and was full of great stories . I read a review stating that the characters were n't realistic August was too horrid and Jacob was a coward . I definitely disagree and found most if not all the characters to be believable.My only complaint is the vocabulary in the novel . It seemed the author was going out of her way to use synonyms fairly close together within the plot . While I do n't mind challenges to my vocabulary I did n't find it believable as if the story was really told from one person 's point of view it is doubtful that they would use such extreme variety in word choices . This is nitpicking though overall I really enjoyed the journey ! ",4
"What a thoroughly engrossing book ! I plan to buy gift copies for friends and family since it was THAT different from the normal 'whodunit ' ! ",4
"Water for Elephants is told through the 90 something year old man in a retirement as he relives his life which came back to him when the circus comes to town . The main character goes through some tough times and finds himself working for the circus a world he knows nothing about . He then falls for a girl who is about as off limits as she can be . This book is a very entertaining book that may start off a bit slow but once it picks up you ca n't stop reading until it 's all over . Fantastic book for a summer read ! ",3
"This book was selected for our book club and I was none too happy . But I will always give a book a try . I picked it up and the prologue had a pretty decent umph to it . The plot a cornell student in his senior year loses his parents and joins the circus in a fit of anger and disbelief is told to the reader soon after the book starts . The rest of the book is told through the eyes of the boy Jacob as a young man in the circus and simultaneously as an old man in a home.The story is a bit strange yet it works . I have to admit that some of the character development was not great but it seems that mysterious part of the story was intentional . The book is about Jacob and his experiences . The other characters were just there to help us understand this man.The part of the book I thought I would like the least animals I tended to enjoy quite often . And Sara 's soft writing style but quick with the action kept me on the edge of my seat . As soon as I thought the story was taking a long boring unnecessary mistep to fill empty book pages she surprised me with another turn in the story . I enjoyed her writing style . She had a story to tell and she told it . She did n't bore us with endless details of animal cages circus scenes or odd scenic descriptions . In fact ironically I found myself wanting a little more time with some of the animals . At the end of the book I thought maybe she could have wrote a few more indepth scenes with jacob interacting with the animals . But like I said this is a story about a boys emotional journey through a very difficult time in his life . The animals and the other characters in the book just provided a backdrop and an interesting environment.Note Although I see the book as a book about Jacob Sara was inspired to write this novel after reading an article about the Circus . She then spent some time researching the circus and animals intending to write a story about the circus . Interestingly enough maybe she wrote a story about the circus and Jacob is just the human backdrop ! I do highly recommend this book . It was very difficult to put down ! ",3
"Very disappointing if you are an animal lover do n't bother purchasing this book . I do n't think I even got half way because of disturbing animal accounts . ",1
"This book was a wonderful read drawing you in making you part of the story . THAT is what makes a great book when you are there you are wrapped up in the characters loving the good guys and hating the bad guys feeling it all as you lose yourself in a well written book such as this one . I highly recommend this book ! ",4
"I enjoyed this book soso much . Who would of thought ? I was thoroughly entertained . I had never read anything about a circus so learned a lot . ",3
"The book was weird . I felt like I was reading a porn book or something . The description on how the female dances it goes all into details even how she touches her boobs she even goes naked . I do n't get it is she a a circus whore ? I did n't want to read a book on how she touches herself so im returningIm not into that kinda of reads . Maybe it is not like that as in whole book ? but its an early start for dirty things so I assume the rest of the book is the same . ",0
"Sara Gruen 's Water for Elephants is a one of those books that fascinate you with a look inside an unfamiliar world while entertaining you . The author is very adept at spinning a yarn creating characters that spring to life in vibrant color and setting up simultaneous storylines that build suspense and keep you interested . She is one of the best writer 's I 've read when it comes to inventing villains . I look forward to reading more by this author . On sheer writing ability I would 've given her five stars but there were a couple of things in the story that put me off . I wo n't spoil it for others by pointing them out and I would still highly recommend this book for its pure entertainment value . ",3
"I hesitated reading this book for three reasons1 . I do n't like circuses.2 . I am not particularly interested in books written about the Depression era . I find both # 1 & # 2 well depressing.3 . I do n't like reading the latest best sellerOprah Book.I am very glad I went against my own prejudices and read this book . The sections about his current life as a 90 or 93 year old he is not sure how old he is or exactly what year it is right now were charming and a realistic view into the mind of someone who is both angry that he is being treated like he has lost his mind and afraid that he actually is losing it.The sections of him as a young man working learning the ropes of circus life were interesting and enlightened me on the crazy unstable life that was so common for so many people during the Depression . It was also impossible to not be enamored with some of the circus animals like Rosie the elephant and Bobo the chimp or was she an orangutan ? .The only thing I DIDNT like about the book was an excerpt from the New York Times Book Review that I made the mistake of reading off the back coverWith a showman 's expert timing Gruen saves a terrific revelation for the final pages transforming a glimpse of Americana into an enchanting escapist fairy tale.I read the book afraid that it would turn out to be the dreams or fantasies of an old man who never actually worked for a circus . The ending was sweet and heartening nothing that transformed the book for me just something that completed it . ",4
"Throughout the whole story I kept wondering why everybody thought this was so greathowever the ending was really a great twist really worthwhile . This is the kind of story where you feel very redeemed and glad you finished the story . It was really hard to read about the abuse of the animals because you just knew that even though this is fiction this stuff really happened . My heart goes out to all of the circus animals that suffered during the depression era and after . ",3
"This is the kind of story a grandpa would tell over and over again . I did not buy the book but I wish I had . And for only $ 4 on the kindle it 's a steal ! I can not wait to see the movie . The best part is that this is just one story of the old man 's life . And I would like to hear more ! It will keep you turning pages until there are no more to turn ! ",4
"I did n't think I would like this novel as it was what I thought was a book about the Circus . I was way wrong . The characters that were developed were terrific and the imagery that Sarah Gruen creates in depicting the 1930 's Circus world is amazing . I recommend this book to anyone who wants to smile . ",4
"Normally I would n't have picked this up . The circus is not really a topic that interests me and cruelty to animals really upsets me . My coworker really liked this one and talked me into reading it.I tried to get into it I really did but this book draaagged for me and I 'm not exactly sure why . Honestly I had a very hard time finishing it and I 'm usually a very quick reader.It seemed to have all the makings for a good story A decent beginning middle and endlove storydramaetc etc . Obviously there are a lot of people out there that really enjoy it . I 'm glad it worked for some people . I wish I had found it as compelling as everyone else but for whatever reason I just could not connect with the characters emotionally . The forbidden love story left me feeling bored and I did n't feel all that sympathetic towards the lovers . The only character that really was interesting to me was August the cruelcharmingabusive husband . He was definitely the highlight of the book for me.Overall I guess I wil give it a 3 . It was okay not poorly written and I could see it being a 5 star for some peoplejust not me . ",2
"Jacob is a fiesty 90 or 93 year old as he says . This book is written well starts off grabbing the reader and never lets him down . One of those I want to read it more books . The authors research is extensive and from my experience accurate . From senior nursing facilities to the great depression she has it all down . A great read that you hope will never end . Better have a great book ready to go when you finish this one . ",4
"Water for elephants is happy sad romantic and exciting it changes from page to page . Just as something exciting happens it switches to Jacob struggling as an old man in a nursing home . There are plenty of plot twists and surprises . The book is a very detailed description of a disgusting circus in the 1930 's from the illegal moonshine to straining horse trough water through a pair of clowns panty hose to make lemonade and the red lighting when they are thrown off of the train over a tressle of unwanted employees . Although the main character has some difficulty you know it will be ok in the end because he tells it as an old man in a nursing home . During his time in the circus Jacob makes some very interesting friends like Walter the midget clown Earl the gentle security guard and Uncle Al who is way more of a jerk than he seems . Overall the book was a very exciting story about Jacob trying to survive in a circus and getting the woman he loves . ",3
"Being an avid reader with little time to do so I do not waste my time on just any book . This book is a true winner one that I will think about for years to come.The author spent much time researching circus life in the 20 's and 30 's and it shows . The book had such vivid characters and the story line was fastpaced and so so interesting . The blending of fact and fiction is expertly done ! ! ! Having never really been interested in circus life I found things out that were surprising and shocking ! Life with the circus was a rough tough hard shocking life that was full of strict rules and social status . However these rules changed on the whims of the ownersoperators and changed many fates for the worse . The original black and white photos included throughout the book add to the total top quality of this great read.The main character Jacob narrates his life story at the age of 90something . While the storyline jumps from present to past it is easy to follow and never confusing.The characters are wonderful and you will find yourself so caught up in the plot of this book . I could not turn the pages fast enough . I guarantee you will laugh cry and be shocked when you are finished reading this great read . It will leave you wanting for MORE.Do yourself a favor and get this book and just ENJOY ! ! ! ",4
"interesting and easy to read . In excellent shape . I am use to reading non fiction books . But found this novel to have a lot of truth in it.Always have been interested in the circus life . ",4
"I was so taken by this story when I first started reading it that I told my Mom about it suggesting that she would love it . I was almost finished with the book when my Mom passed away . When going through her things I found a copy of Water for Elephants and it really hit me hard emotionally much like Jacob 's feelings when his parents died my Mom died from a neural hematoma after slipping on a step ladder . Now almost five years later I was able to bring myself to finish reading this wonderful tale and I am so glad I did . ",4
"Overall very Good book . As a movie I had no interest in the story . However I decided to give it a shot only because it was an available book at the time I was browsing . Very intriguing ! Enjoyed the book and am sure you will too . ",4
"This book was great ! Unable to put it down very detailed . It made me feel like I was there ! ! ! Ca n't wait to see the movie . ",4
"Note my review will not do this book justice ! LOL . I loved the book so much I 'm try not to let myself give too much away ! My DescriptionWater for Elephants is a novel bringing us back to the world of the traveling circus in the early 1900 & # 8242s when they traveled by train . Jacob Jankowski is a young man in his early 20 & # 8242s with dreams of becoming a veterinarian like his father . Very close to the final day for his testing to become licensed his parents die in a car accident and his entire life changes . Running away from his problems he ends up jumping on a train and this oneact takes him on the ride of his life . Jacob becomes a worker for a traveling circus as their very own vet and in the process falls in love with Marlena one of the shows acts . The problem she 's a married woman . Along their travels the circus owner buys an Elephant Rosie in hopes to become the greatest act in all the history of circusesWater for Elephants is a magical book ! It brought me back to when I was a child dreaming of being a circus performer . The way Gruen describes the circus and it 's acts really paints a picture in your mind and you feel like you are right there with Jacob the entire time . I loved how Gruen cuts back and forth between Jacob as an elderly man in a home remembering when he was on a circus to when Jacob was in his early 20 & # 8242s on the circus . You love Jacob in both ages especially as a feisty elderly man ! I love when Gruen brought Jacob in as an elderly man he brings in some comedy as well as makes you understand how some elderly people feel when they are in a nursing home.Gruen knows how to writer her characters . You fall in love with so many of them ! Walter Jacob 's roommate on the train . Camel the man who takes Jacob in under his wing when Jacob first jumps on the train . The lovely Marlena Jacobs love interest . Rosie the beautiful 53yearoldelephant . You also do n't like some of the characters like Uncle Al the circus owner and August Marlena 's husband . Trust me there are times you just want to jump through the book and beat them yourselves ! I absolutely fell in love with this book . I had two of my good friends telling me that I must read it because it was just that good and I was not disappointed . I do believe that anyone who has an interest in any genre would love this book ! It 's a very fast read and you do n't want to put it down . Again it 's just magical ! It leaves you smiling and happy . This book will be on my bookshelf forever and will be picked up several times for a reread ! DOh you can buy the Kindle version of this book for just a little over $ 4.00 but from what I 've heard you do n't get the awesome circus pictures throughout the book . Gruen places a real circus picture at the beginning of each chapter that is from when Jacob is in his 20 & # 8242s on the circus . It 's awesome ! There is only one chapter that did n't have a circus pic infront of it when it should have but really they are great . If you buy the kindle version the next time you 're in the bookstore pick up the paperback version and flip through and check out the pictures at leastthey 're fun ! D ",4
"I just finished reading this book and I ca n't wait to recommend it to others . I was certainly THE best book I have read in a long time . It was mesmerizing and had me hooked right from the beginning . The book is well written and reflects careful research and attention to detail . I will be looking for more books from this fabulous author . ",4
"a young man ran away and joined the circus where he found love sex death redemption and family . A splendid story that I could not stop reading until the end with a cast of characters that is beautifully realizedno shortcuts no stock characters everyone explored and explained and unique . Very highly recommended . ",4
"I enjoyed this book from start to finish . My only criticism is regarding a little to much explicit sexual description and violent animal abuse . Otherwise I found it very well written and a fascinating tale . ",4
"Well written at a good pace with events . Kind of weird with the flipping between timeline but I see this type of conversation with my dad . Will not see the movie as I enjoyed the book more than I thought I would . Is a good read . ",3
"I really like it . I am going to watch the video if I can find it . The historical parts are fascinating . I have been to some IN historical circus places . Those times were tuff but very interesting . ",4
"I enjoyed the book so much that I had to see the movie to see what they would do with the story . I liked most of the characters . ",4
"This was a very well written book . I also appreciated the comments made by the author on her research and the way she brought the stories she uncovered into the book . ",4
"This was a wonderful bookhardly took me anytime to read it . Held my attention & was fast moving & interesting . Would highly recommend to animal lovers for surebut also to those who enjoy books bout people . ",4
"Gruen paints a portrait of the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth a Depressionera train circus operated by Alan J. Bunkel known as Uncle Al who is described as a buzzard a vulture an eater of carrion who grew fat off the carcasses of circusses that collapsed after the Crash . Their losses were his gains . The Prologue introduces the narrative which begins with a stampede of circus animals and we are introduced to a secret which is kept by the narrator for 70 years . The reader is immediately pulled into the narrative.The narrative is juxtaposed between Jacob Jankowski 's life during the seven years he spent in the circus and his present life as an irascible 90 or 93 he ca n't remember which year old man in an assisted living facility . As a young veterinary student about to graduate from Cornell Jacob finds himself homeless and parentless and is unable to take his final exams . He finds himself jumping on a train which turns out to be Benzini 's Circus train . The reader is introduced to circus lingo rubes are the circusgoers kinkers are the performers and Patches are the men assigned to smooth the ruffled feathers of disgruntled spectators who might be angry they did n't get their money 's worth at the Freak Show or those of a homeowner whose garden has been destroyed by a wandering elephant . One is given a glimpse into the highly stratified almost castelike social world of the circus in which performers never rubbed elbows with the likes of the lowly workers particulary the black workers of the Flying Squadron who were instructed to run into their tents and remain invisible as soon as the rubes started to make their appearance.The novel is plotdriven and although there are many stereotypical elements there are the requisite evil villains Uncle Al and his sidekick August Rosenbluth the equestrian director and superintendent of animals who is hated and feared for his violent tendencies and his legendary cruelty to humans and circus animals . There is also the requisite central love story between two gentle souls sho have been dealt life 's difficult blows but whose goodness and pure intentions help them to weather the storm . There is Bobo the orangutuan and particularly Rosie the elephant who steal our hearts and we root for them as much as we root for Jacob and Marlena . If you are looking for a novel embedded with deep hidden meanings and rich with literary technique and complex characterization then this is definitely not the book for you . If you are looking for a plotdriven novel whose events proceed rapidly and which transports the reader to another world then I highly recommend this delightfully readable novel.In spite of the stereotypical elements I thoroughly enjoyed this novel . I found myself getting up extra early and staying up extra late to get to the last page and when I did I was sorry the journey was over . I was n't quite ready to say goodbye to Jacob Marlena Kinko Camel Rosie or Bobo . Perhaps I will just read it again . ",3
"An adventure inside the circus but more importantly inside one man 's experience of others . Very deep . Glad they made it a movie so more people can experience it but it is always better to read the book . ",4
"This book was so interesting to me and it moved me . I liked how the author portrayed each and every character flaws and all . I especially liked the main character and his thoughts on aging . It evoked many emotions from me . ",4
"This book was wonderful such great incite into the circus world of the depression era . Loved the characters and the transition from the past to the present . Recommend it highly . ",4
"This is not the sort of book I normally read but I enjoyed reading this one . It had a very good story . ",3
"This is a wonderful story . I first heard it on Chapter A Day and just finished reading it to fill in the parts I 'd missed . The extra bonus in reading the book is seeing all the fascinating historical pictures Gruen gathered from various circus museums . I loved that some of the amazing things that Gruen discovered in her research about circus were woven into the story . She began her research into the world of circus life by contacting Circus World Museum in Baraboo WI which we have been to and love . Gruen 's book has added a whole new dimension to the world of the circus . ",4
"Highly recommended . Good authors are hard to find Sara Gruen is one of those . The plot the grammar the characters the research all excellent . I have given this book to friends as a gift my highest recommendation . ",4
"This was my least favorite of Riding Lessons Flying Changes and Ape House . Sara Gruen has a way of writing about relationships between humans and animals . It is unbelievable the love that is conveyed is incredible . ",3
"The story of this plotdriven book keeps you turning the pages but I did not much care for the characters . They did n't have much depth they could have been developed so much more . In addition there are quite a few scenes that are either offensive or gross or both apparently for sheer sensationalism . The circus train theme is interesting and fun to read and this is what keeps the book going . One scene near the end depicted the main characters in a church I thought this would be developed further . It turns out this was just added in to try to show the morality of Jacob perhaps to foreshadow that he could never kill Marlena 's husband August . Jacob started out at the beginning of the book as a naive innocent kid . How he could change into such an experienced risktaker in a period of just a few months confused me . He certainly does n't seem the churchgoing type by the end of the novel . And the fact that he and Marlena end up together with lots of animals by way of Rosie eliminating August is just plain silly . ",2
"I read The Glass Castle and did n't think I could ever find another book that would grab my attention like that one did . WRONG ! ! If you liked Glass Castle your going to love this book . Do n't the title deter you.I totally enjoyed this book . Enjoy ",4
"WATER for ELEPHANTS was a quick and mostly enjoyable read for me . The story of Jacob a young man on the verge of his career as a veterinarian was told as the flashback of a much older Jacob who now resides in a nursing home . As young Jacob was about to take his final exams and graduate from vet school his world crumbled when his parents were killed in a car accident . Left without family or money a despondent Jacob jumped on a passing train . He soon found himself working as a vet for a traveling circus . The story of young Jacob 's adventures with the circus is interwoven with the story of old Jacob 's life as a resident in a nursing home . I loved the book but I found parts of it too graphic . There were sexually explicit passages as well as descriptions of violent animal abuse which I felt were overdone and unnecessary to the story . ",3
"This is an uncommon setting and an outoftheordinary character makes this book a surprisingly wonderful read ! I love this author 's style . ",4
"This is one of the most well written books I 've ever read . I 'm not much on fiction but this is an enthralling story . I did n't think it would appeal to me much but a friends ' endless raves convinced me to give it a try . It 's gritty gutsy appalling delightful sad glorious and many other adjectives.Movie supposed to be out this year also . Ca n't wait ! ",4
"I enjoy reading about things in this timeframe . The book was very good but I would be afraid to see the movie because I do n't like to see bad things happen to animals . Somehow reading about such things does n't affect me as seeing it . This book was well written and I would recommend it to my friends . Loved the ending . ",4
"Sara Gruen created an amazing story that takes into account the events between the present and the past . This is an enchanting tale that I did not want to end . Her extensive research into the circus life its animals and the relationship with people involve was very evident . Her writing is very descriptive and full of emotion . Overall I thought Water for Elephants was a terrific story and worthy of a readers time . Highly recommend . ",3
"After 132 previously written reviews I know there is not much new to say about this book . So I will just say that I thoroughly enjoyed this book . Ms. Gruen states in the Author 's note that she was going to write an entirely different book and instead wrote this one and I am so glad that she did . The research and old pictures make this a once upon a time story . The story is hypnotic and truly heartwarming from beginning to end . If looking for a great read this is it . ",4
"I read this book after I saw the movie to compare which can be a mistake but not in this case . Of course there were some differences but both the book and the movie were very enjoyable . ",4
"This a book . Written to the end.Way to go . If you make it that far and you did n't wish for the time back congrats on your fivestar review . The rest of you can join us behind the menagerie tent for a smoke.If you 're interested in reading something about road shows that 's real dig back to the source material . Read Geek Love if you have the stones . And then write a note to Katherine Dunn for opening the tent flap . ",1
"The best part of this book is the narrator the back and forth in time the way it 's made as a memory . Beautiful story . ",3
"I was a bit relucatant at first but after starting it turned out to be a wonderful story . Current then pastetc . It did n't confuse the reader it took you on a trip from the 1930 's to current day and what a fun ride with action romance sadnessalmost every emotion.I usually do n't go in for this sort of book but it was very well written ",3
"Water for Elephants is on the best sellers list ! No wonder ! It was a great book . I enjoyed each segment whether it was set at the nursing home or the circus . I thought the characters were well thought out and believable . We will review this book at our next book club meeting . ",4
"Gruen got inside the circus . This story is told from an old man 's point of view but we see Jacob clearly as a young man too.If you like action with a little romance this is a good read . ",4
"As I read this book I found that it was continuously straightforward . There were n't any twists really any shockers and nothing that was n't really expected . The shocking ending was more of just an hmm all right . It did n't really change anything nor did it affect how I felt towards any of the characters.The story is a good one that did keep me reading and interested . It shifted between the past and present day as the protagonist continued to reminisce about previous years and reflected on his current life . I did not really get connected to any of the characters and I just felt like there was something missing from this book that I just could n't put my finger on.The characters were interesting the story was good and the setting was of course new and refreshing . But it just seemed something was lacking . As I was reading the Reader 's Questions in the back contemporary books are starting to put in I found that they were n't many powerful themes or internalizations to take away from this book . That does n't mean the book was bad because it was just a straightforward story it just was missing something.All the parts woven together make an all right read but nothing amazing or enlightening . ",2
"I really enjoyed this book . Water For Elephants is the story of a young man who almost becomes a veterinarian but is too distraught over the death of his parents to sit the final exams . After being left with nothing he accidentally hops a circus train and is hired on as their vet . The story of his time with the circus is told in flashbacks and is very well done . Love betrayal hope cruelty and compassion combine with wonderful prose and truetotheera settings to give you a great read . I picked this book up on a whim not knowing anything about it and then could n't put it down . Fascinating ! ",3
"Beautifully written ! It told the story of the great depression the hard life the loneness ! I believe the animal cruelty was needed to show the mind set of the time period . It was a very different timelife ! Could you live then ? Are you strong enough ? ! No we are n't the same class of people ! Please read this story a wonderfully written book ! ! ",4
"At first I was hesitant about reading this book . I figured that reading about a traveling circus really would n't appeal to me and I did n't understand why it was continually being suggested to me on this website . Eventually I gave in and bought it . I pushed it aside for months never bothering to read it still mostly uninterested . Finally bored one day I picked it up and started reading . Two pages in I did n't want to put it down.The opening is clever leading to a fantastic ending . The writing style is charming falling in love with the main character is completely inevitable.This is definitely on my topten list of novels . It is so beautifully written I highly recommend it to anyone . It has all the mystery love emotion and intrigue a novel should.I only hope the rest of her books are as lovely . ",4
"I saw the movie first and knew after that I had to read the book . One of my favourite in a long time . ",4
"As a devoted historical fiction reader I thought this book would interest me . It did not . Water for Elephants reads like a children 's novel save for excessive and serious profanity graphic and frequent sex scenes and violence so vivid I was moved to nausea . If you are able to ignore those sorts of things you will not find yourself feeling any kind of sympathy for the onedimensional characters . The characters do not develop over the course of the story and seem only concerned with dabbling in vice . As a result I was unable to identify with them.A portion of the story is written from the point of view of the main character in his old age . This writing is exceptional and managed to keep me interested during the course of the book . Still these marvelous little glimpses of author Sara Gruen 's potential do not permit me to recommend this book to anybody . Avoid it . ",0
"Not only was Sara Gruen able to get completely inside of Jacob Jankowski 's head she was able to grab hold of me and bring me along . I lived this story alongside of Jacob and loved every minute of it . For days after finishing the book I missed the characters profoundly . In my mind that 's success . It 's been a good long while since I 've read anything that touched me like this one . Kudos Sara Gruen ! ",4
"Very nice interesting book a nice change from romances or killerthrillers ! Relaxing and enjoyable ! I would definitely read this author again . ",4
"Outstanding storyI was very sorry to have it end ! I kept thinking of the story for a couple days later . I would recommend it highly ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ",4
"I loved this book ! I do n't generally give 5star ratings as I believe that most books could use some improving . This book was wonderful . It was engrossing and readable and the story was believable . It was obvious that the author did a lot of research about train circuses as well as elephants.I would recommend this book to anyone who has a couple of hours to slip into another world and enjoy the characters created in this world . ",4
"I 'm so glad I did n't see the movie ! I 've just recently read the book and could n't put it down . Honestly it was n't that long and only took me about 2 days to read which was good . At first it was a bit slow but the plot was really great and had just enough suspense ! ! I highly recommend this book it 's popular for a reason ! ! ! ! ",3
"This is a lovely story . Not something that I would normally pick to read but it had me hooked from the start . I enjoyed it right through to the end . ",4
"Guess which one ? Most people would choose the circus story I would venture to guess . But for me the old man in the nursing home was the superb plotline . Having observed my parents and grandparents and other people in that situation I thought the author captured the experience and the frustration for theI always want to say 'inmate ' rather than 'patient'who one day finds himherself to be 90 or 93 and wonders how this ever came about . The little indignities were all there along with understanding that the 'inmate 's ' children are getting on in years themselves and ca n't assume caretaking . It was done with humor compassion and insight . I suppose a whole book devoted to a nursing home soap opera would have been too much so the circus story paced it out.I found myself skimming the chapters about the circus so I could get back to the nursing home drama . I often do that with books where I like one plotline but not the other . The Devil in the White City The Short History of a Prince . Pssst do n't tell the authors but I 'll bet a lot of other readers do too . ",3
"Not my kind of story read a few chapters after recommendation by a friend but never could get into it ! ",1
"Water for Elephants further romanticizes the ageold dream to runaway and join the circus . Unfortunately for Jacob our star it was not his dream to join the circus but rather coincidence mixed with his last hope . The story is told from two viewpoints Jacob is now ninetysomething years old and we see what has become of our young protagonist and we see many flashback sequences to the events that took place as he traveled with the circus.As readers we are exposed to the sharp contrast between his youth and aged eras . With the circus Jacob 's life was so full of adventure and nonstop activity . Now he is resident in an assistedliving facility and he fears he is losing his energy and becoming more and more like the peers with whom he shares lodging . As he relives the excitement of his days with the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth he not only longs for a different time but resets his grip on his past . He is one old man who is not ready to give up on life.Sara Gruen gave us a beautiful story about a man who refuses to let go of the events that changed his life . As you read about Jacob your heart will break and then if possible it will break again . It is much more than one young man 's tale of woe however . The story is one of love hope never giving up and some unlikely good friends . You will laugh worry delight and cheer with Jacob whether he is twenty something or ninety something . I really appreciate that the author went the extra mile in her research of life in the circus.I did n't think I would like Water for Elephants but I heard from too many people that it was good . When that happens I had no choice but to give it a try . I really liked this book . And I 'm glad I read it . ",4
"I was a bit apprehensive about reading this book but found it surprisingly refreshing in its approaches spoken from two time periods and its treatment of life as part of a circus family . While the senior perspective was somewhat depressing it was quite vivid of how one can be forgotten when one has so much life left to live and so much to share . I also liked reading the excitement of the junior perspective his trials and tribulations . I think that both could have easily been expanded and still kept the reader 's interest wanted to know more about each character who are one and the same ! Bravo ! ",4
"This book tells of a man whose experiences as a young man are recalled when he 's in his 90 's . the writing is vivid and the experiences of the man when he 's young and old are effectively told . My imagination was captured and I thoroughly enjoyed this book . ",2
"This would have been a great young adult fiction book . However the author for some reason was really into nasty words and graphic sex . Too bad she took the low road and destroyed her book . I do n't understand all the people who thought it was brilliant it was just dirty . However it had potential . ",1
"Had heard book was good and used it as my borrowed book with Amazon Prime . Wonderful storykept me reading . Gave me considerable insight into the intelligence of elephants ! ",3
"Could not put this book down read from front to back and held on tight . Without giving the good stuff away you are there in the book at all times.amazing.wonderful.The twist on Jacob from the Bible which you wo n't notice unless you read the Bible is a grabber ! We all will get old some day..and if you are close give this book to family members waiting to put you in a nursing home . I think what got me the most was pay attention.I do n't even want to see the moviethis was good enough for me ! ",4
"This is a sentimental story with quite a bit of charm . It is touted as a crowd pleaser and that is probably the reason for its huge success . You do root for the narrator even if the plot is contrived the ending obvious and the characterization somewhat weak.I would have hoped for a more authentic and earthy description of a Depressionera circus but the writing is watered down . Often the conflicts between the characters are too quickly or conveniently resolved and the characters seem to be at the mercy of the plot . Major crises are quickly skimmed over and the true potential of this book is never fully developed.I read this to the endwhich says somethingbut reflecting back on the book I wish it had been stronger and more carefully constructed . 3.5 stars . ",3
"Do you ever have a book shoved down your throat brain by friends in bookclubs to the point that you rebel and refuse to read this wickedly popular book ? Well that 's what had happened to me regarding this gem . Five separate friends in five separate bookclubs would n't stop yammering about this book and exclaiming Oh ! If you read ANYTHING this year you MUST READ THIS ! ! ! ! So fool me once shame on youfool me twice shame on me ! I 've read highly recommended books and ended up HATING THEM ! Too boring too dark too something or another so I 've learned to smile and nod and say Gee thanks for that recommendation . I 'll have to look into it and of course I don't.Well thank goodness for a rainysoaked Mother 's Day weekend and the virtues of my Kindle app ! I had just finished my last book could n't find anything of interest that I wanted to read got an email from amazon about Reduced Rate Kindle Books and ~shrugged~ figuring that a $ 4 buck and change ebook would n't set my finances back much . Once I started this novel I could n't put it down ! I am now dining on crow and humble pie and have acknowledged that in THIS incident my 5 friends were correctthis is a MUST read book ! The characters are charismatic whether Good Bad or Ugly . People evolve or devolve throughout the story . The circus that time frame and the animals all turn real inside your imagination . Bad things happen in this story and good things then bad and good again . The tension is riveting and you decide that just one more page just one more hour is necessary to find out what happensuntil you turn the last paper or epage of this novel.All I can say is Continue to listen to your friends ! Sometimes they truly DO know that you 'd love this book ! ",4
"Holy cow ! What a Book ! Here we have a novel written by a woman whose lead character is a young man er old 93 yearold man er an elephant named Rosie . Never mind . But she does it ! She pulls it off . The storytelling is spellbinding . You are right there in the blackness of night wobbling precariously on the roof of a train crossing a trestle with a knife gritted in your teeth and murder in your heart . You love Rosie the elephant . You ache with fear and infatuation for Marlene trapped in the grasp of a lethal psychotic maniac.Sara Gruen is a literary gem to put us in the mind and depression times of the traveling Circus 's the smell of the animals the freaks and the language . How about fathoming the mind of a cranky reminiscent 93 year old coot whose character and lovable humanity hold the whole thing together ? So what 's next ? Pierce Scranton M.D.author Death on the Learning Curve ",4
"I do n't get it . I could n't even get through the first half of this book . I sure tried . I was bored ! And so disappointed ! ",0
"The startling life of a man left behind in a home stays with you . Each of us happily cheers for the hero as he drifts back to his circus days . You only hope your own life is as full where romance and engaging performers tug at your soul . A+ . ",4
"The protagonist is not convincingly portrayed . He impresses as a bit dull . Somehow he acted without characteristics that justify his actions . ",0
"I liked this book would n't say it was the best one I 've ever read though . The story itself was well thought out and put together with good incorporations of the flashback to 1931 and the action occurring in the present . I think right after the beginning when Jacob first joins the circus and they get the elephant is a little slow where there is not really much of a plot that has been introduced yet so it was slightly tedious in some parts in that area . The other thing is that there might have been a couple of unnecessary characters that made the story too much of a task to follow at times with all the names and who is who and such . ",3
"Sara Gruen 's Water for Elephants is a creative delight . She uses structure plot and setting with originality . She employs literary devices in innovative ways . Her characters are believable even though they inhabit the unreal world of the circus.First structure and plot . Gruen describes the ending of the novel in the prologue . She infuses the prologue with ambiguity so the reader can not be clear about what happened . She structures the rest of the book as a search for answers to the perplexing prologue.Second innovative literary devices . Gruen withholds information like a magician . This device suspense allows her to keep the reader engaged and befuddled . The novel reads like the children 's storytelling game where the narrator brings a character to an impossible situation then hands the storytelling over to the next person . Each chapter has a rise and fall.Another literary device Gruen handles creatively is point of view . The story told in first person is seen through the consciousness of Jacob Jankowski . But Jacob 's point of view is complicated because it alternates between Jacob in his twenties and Jacob in his nineties . So the reader sees two viewpoints depending upon which stage of life Jacob narrates his story from.Finally setting and characters . Gruen 's setting and characters are unusual . The background is Midwestern and depressionera . The culture is the circus Benzini 's notquiteasgoodasRinglingBros Circus . The characters are performers entertainers workers and animals that perform eat sleep travel love hate fight and care for each other with a common goal to produce a show . Though the setting and characters are specific the reader can relate to them because they display the same passions and vulnerability we all do . Gruen transcends specificity and finds universal connections . Life is performing in the Big Top . We are all players . We struggle with good and evil kindness and cruelty pleasure and suffering life and death . The show goes on . Sara Gruen writes with originality and soul . ",3
"Jacob Jankowski like many Americans was having a hard time in the Great Depression . After failing to complete veterinary school he ends up working on a traveling circus going to town after town with the big top acts the freak shows and the menagerie of exotic animals . He quickly learns that there is a darker side to the circus behind the scenes that the happy popcorn eating crown never sees.The set up workers are considered expendable and are kicked off the train if they stay on past their usefulness and animals are often treated cruelly and ruthlessly . Out of necessity sometimes life was cruel during the Great Depression but sleazy ringmaster Uncle Al and violent animal trainer August Rosenbluth choose to perpetrate this unnecessarily at the Benzini Brothers circus . Jacob remains part of this world as he is tied by love and duty to the animals in his care as well as his friends and the beautiful Marlena wife of August.This was not always an easy book to read . There are graphic scenes of animal cruelty that had me wincing as well as heartbreaking scenes of human disappointments and pain . Despite this I recommend this novel wholeheartedly . Sara Gruen describes the scene perfectly from the Great Depression to the atmosphere of the circus and there are some uplifting messages about the powers of kindness and love for the reader to take away as well . I also recommend her previous two novels Riding Lessons and Flying Changes . ",4
"It was an OK book . I was expecting it to be really great and it did n't really live up to the hype . Maybe the movie is better ",2
"This is one of the best books I have read in a long time . It has an engaging premise characters I came to care about and it is well written.Because the setting for the story is obviously a circus Ms. Gruen gives us a great deal of information about this business . Thankfully this adds to the story and does n't bog it down . This story showed me that the circus is as much a lifestyle as it is a business.I would recommend this book to anyone and will probably read it again and these are the highest compliments I can give to a book . ",4
"The readers both the old and the young Jacob do a great job of bringing this novel to life ! ",4
"I probably would not have picked this book up on my own because I dont really care for circuses and the thought of clowns freak me out . This was a book club selection that someone else had picked so I gave it a try . What I found was a story that hooked me.I was so terrified to read about any animal cruely and to be truthful there is some of that in this book . However I found myself not able to put it down.The story was more about someone who had chosen a path in life and then when a devestating act occurs changes that path to something totally differently.I think the whole lesson of the book is that life may be taking us one way and then one little moment can change everything . That changed moment can even make us think that what we wanted was not what we really wanted after all.As for the animal cruelty while I hate it I had to say that it really did occur and probably still does occur in some circuses . Very hard for me to stomach but at least the author put the truth in the book.I am not going to summarize the book . All I can really say is pick it up and give it a try . A definite entertainment . Also for those not too crazy about clowns well my doubts were not founded in that department . There is not really mention of them that I can recall . ",4
"After reading several reviews I think that many readers may have missed the entire point of Water for Elephants . Some reviewers said that the book did n't say much about circus life and some say they did not care about learning about the circus . WFE teaches us that it is ok to rememeber fondly those most rewarding experiences throughout your life but also that it is never too late to create new experiences . It also provides us with a unique perspective of everyday life in a senior living facilitya place that many of us may end up in one day . ",3
"Oh Water for Elephants America loves you . America loves you so much that Hollywood is making a movie about you starring Reese and Rob swoon ! . So why ca n't I love you too ? Probably because you had so much potential and did n't live up to it . I will admit my expectations were a little high given how much hype has surrounded this book but I guess it was foolish of me to assume that if a lot of people are loving a book then I would too . Overall my reaction was just meh.I picked up Water for Elephants becauseLike I said other people are really digging this bookI was in the mood for a really good love storyThe setting a traveling circus is greatWater for Elephants only really lived up to number three . As I mentioned above the book did n't really live up to the hype for me . And the love story was just okay . It was n't particularly passionate or compelling I would call it love story lite . I would actually describe the whole book as lite . It ended exactly how I expected to end . There were no twists nothing unexpected and it just did n't have much depth . Which is really disappointing because the setting was great . A circus traveling through the U.S. by train during the Great Depression with hundreds of employees and a whole menagerie of animals including the titular elephant provides so much potential for an interesting story . Unfortunately the author did n't put this great source material to the best use.Do n't get me wrong I finished the book and finished it pretty quickly . It was a fast read and there were some good characters but I just wanted more . More detail more passion more depth . Water for Elephants just did n't go far enough for me.In a nutshell Just okay . Water for Elephants would make a decent beach read but it was n't as good as I wanted it to be . Two and a half stars.And because I love to comment on the casting of movies I have n't seen based on books I 've already read I ai n't buying Robert Pattinson as a redheaded Polska . Nice try studio execs . ",1
"This is a good book that partially describes how the circus business operated during 1930 's . Good plot interesting emotional characters and lots ' of historical informationanecdotes.The story is narrated by a very old person I found some parts of his everyday life descriptions not so exciting . The narrative seemed like a novel approach though and I give the author credit for that . ",3
"I 've actually read this book twiceonce because some friends recommended it and then a few years later I read it again when the movie came out . I thought the story was fascinating about a young man whose veterinary education is interrupted and he hops a circus train . He becomes the circus vet and his whole life changes . Of course this all happens during the Great Depression . I guess I liked this book because of the background research by the author about circuses during that period . The old photos were charming as well . Like another reviewer mentioned not all of the facts regarding the care of animals may have been accurate but it 's a fictional story and I think you have to give some license to that . It 's a book you would take on the plane or to the beach just to enjoy ! ",3
"I did not see the movie but would like to . This book held my interest from beginning to end . I would recommend this book for both men and women . I learned a lot about the circus world . Did n't think I wanted to but found out differently . ",4
"After reading the hysterical prologue A polar bear towered above it all slashing blindly with skilletsized paws . It made contact with a llama and knocked it flat BOOM . The llama hit the ground its neck and legs splayed like the five points of a star it is no surprise that this book is a NYT best seller . What is surprising is that it 's only Gruen 's third book with prose like this you would easily expect her to have a dozen or two novels under her belt by now . Couple that with Gruen 's attention to detail which is reflected in her extensive research of the subject . Bet the original publisher who turned this manuscript down for lack of interest is sorry he did so . Ms. Gruen did herself a favor in finding a new publisher ! I left the book feeling like I was friends with the characters the cantankerous honest yet likeable Jacob the beautiful Marlena the humourous and captivating Rosie . Rosie easily stole the show as the title suggests and you felt a special relationship with her as you went through her trials and tribulations while part of the Benzini Brothers entourage . Her behavior is nothing short of stunning and miraculous towards the end . After the circus ' collapse how can Gruen deliver after such a memorable scene ? You 'll just have to find out . And you wo n't be disappointed . ",4
"I love reading books which captivate me so much that I constantly think about them the characters the plotwhat 's going to happen . When I was a child Enid Blyton 's books did the same thing for me . Sara Gruen is the kind of author a lot of people including me should aspire to be like . Although this is a ficticuous novel some of the events are trueMs . Gruen should be applauded for doing such an excellent job weaving past events with fiction . Her writing style is superb . Most people will probably start reading the book and think they know the endingyou wo n't ! That 's how brilliant this author is.I highly recommend this bookand oh in addition I would LOVE to see the next traveling circus . Do they still exist ? ",4
"There are some brilliant scenes in this book . Gruen does a great job capturing the era and the characters who led the circus life . I reread the last chapter a few times and think she had a few too many martinis and left out some key info that would have made the ending tighter.I do want to see the movie despite mixed reviews . ",2
"Water for Elephants is a quick read that carries you through many experiences and emotions . I enjoyed most of the characters human and animal . It was thrilling sad sexy and hearbreaking at times but in the end you wo n't regret reading it ! You 'll get the added bonus of reading historical fiction too . Very good read highly recommended . ",4
"I love this book . I even bought it for a friend who never reads and she loves it too . The movie however was not that good compared to the book . ",4
"What a lovely story this was ! I feel like it was witten for hollywood I cant wait to see the movie . I loved the fact that the story was remembered by an old man . The author REALLY got what it feels like to be old and she makes you get it also . I felt like I was right in the story I read through this wonderful book in a few days . My only complaint is that it wasnt a little bit longer . This is only about 300 pages but I felt it should have been more . ",4
"This story was so easy to get wrapped up in even thoguh it is in a different time and unusual circumstance . ",3
"Another book I just could n't put down . I did have to put it down for a little while when the animals were mistreated . I also did n't like the fact that the circus employees were n't paid . Overall it was a great story and I hope to read more books by this author . ",4
"I held off reading this book because everyone I knew who had read it or was reading it loved it but kept referring to it as depressing or violent or with other strong negative adjectives . I was n't in the mood for a downer . Nothing else in my recommended for you list appealed to me so I downloaded the free sample . This book is everything everyone said it would beviolence cruelty betrayal death but somehow the story grabs you and wo n't let go . Told by a 90 or 93 year old vet from a circus the story is as personal as a biography and engrossing as a news account of the circus in the 1930s . I read it in 24 hours . Buy borrow it or download itit will not disappoint ! ",4
"I loved everything about this book ! Jacob Marlene Walter Camel and of course dear dear Rosie . It is very well written . ",4
"I bought this book because it was a Kindle Daily Deal and I 'm glad I did n't spend more than $ 1.99 on it . It was an interesting read but it did seem very contrived in a lot of places . I know nothing about circuses or being a vet but even so the book seemed to pick up only on meaty halfrealities kind of like she wanted to shock or surprise or otherwise manipulate the reader . I did n't like the present day partswhy was that necessary ? Kind of like an easy way to let us know that the main character POSSIBLER SPOILER BUT ONLY IF YOU DO N'T READ THE FIRST CHAPTER survived and did okay.I think in short it was a very melodramatic book . Evil moustachetwirling villians did he HAVE to be Jewish ? Really ? Sweet beautiful heroine . Smart masculine hero . Lots of supporting characters . That said the hero had a lot of failings . I should have liked that deviating from the melodrama but his failings seemed nonsensical . Why did he stand by so many times when animals were being harmed ? I did n't hate the book . I read it and enjoyed it more or less but it did n't seem like any kind of great literature . I 'm surprised it was made into a movie in some ways . In others it seems just right as the characters seemed to have been written with the big screen in mind . ",2
"Every now and then I find a book that is so wonderful . It 's like finding the lone needle in a haystack . This book is a treat . Imagery is beautiful characters are fabulous and I loved that the animals had personalities as they do in real life . I recommend this for someone who loves to read for pleasure . Ca n't believe I almost did n't read this because it was about a circus that would have been my loss . ",4
"And read this fabulous story . I could not put it down . The author 's insight into all things human notably aging is phenomenal . This book is top of the line in every respect . Thank you Sara Gruen for all your inspired research and talent . ",4
"I will admit the only reason I bought this is because it was $ 5 for the Kindle but the story grabs you from the very beginning and holds you until the end . As vacuous as it may seem the author writing from a male 's perspective was a bit off but Jacob 's character is easy to identify with and who does n't love an elephant that kicks the bad guy 's ! ! ! ",3
"This is the type of novel I expect to be on the bestseller list and is why I typically overlook popular novels sometimes to my own detriment . An elderly man now in a nursing home looks back on his time spent as a veterinarian in a circus . It 's a story that could have been capable of more but the plot seemed fairly predictable and the characters not that believable or rounded . It was n't bad mind you I guess you could say this elephant was just too watered down . ",1
"Having read after watching the movie it 's hard not to imagine Reese Witherspoon and Robert Patinson as the lead characters . The book is very engaging and a quick read . ",4
"Reading the first line of this book caught me immediately . I have ADD with books sometimes but this one I did n't slip a word . The author makes you care about everyone even the jerks . ",4
"This was a refreshingly interesting read due to its uniqueness . Much research was done to make it as realistic as possible and it shows through you 'd be missing out not to read this book ! ",4
"Quite a few people recommended I read this book and I 'm glad I did ! It had all the components you want in a good book and a fantastic inside look of the depression era circus . You ca n't help but love or hate the charactersand I found myself smiling at the end . Read it ! ",3
"This book was recommended to me by a friend . I went out bought it and finally read it . It was amazing book . The book kept me hooked to the last sentence . It was well writtin and you get to feel sorry for the old man but he finds peace in the end . This book does not disappoint . It is a time peace but you will still love it . ",4
"I love this book ! It has such great detail and description I feel like I 'm there ! I would highly recommend it ",4
"I really enjoyed this historical novel about a depressionera circus and the people who work in it . ",3
"Water for Elephants is one of the best books I 've read in a long time . This book was mentioned several times in the House at Riverton book club I participated in and was a huge seller during the holidays on Amazon . I figured even though it was n't a book I would normally pick up and start reading I would give it a try.I 'm so glad I did ! The story setting was depression era circus lifemore than intriguing ! Sara Gruen did an amazing job with her research and the detail she outlined in the book . She was able to find a perfect balance of grisly and romantic . Gruen used that same memory sequence style of storytelling as The House at Riverton Titanic and Rebecca . The flips from past to present were seamless.Gruen 's depiction of the narrator as a 98 year old man was awesome . She allowed the reader to understand the traumas of being that old as well as remind us there 's often a pretty amazing story to most of the older generation.Each character had a function in the story including the nursing home staff . There were no superficial characters and every single character helped you to understand who the main character was.This was one of those fun reads that sucks you in and makes you wish the story could go on forever . I ended the book feeling like I wanted to join a circus wanted a pet elephant and wanted to work in a nursing home . All very strange indeed ! Its not often a book I read can make me want to do anything remotely close to those things . ",4
"A true grit romance with all the details of the hard life of carnies . An amazing tale of one man 's life survival and eventually love . ",4
"When I read the summary of this book I wondered why it was so popular . It did n't sound like anything I 'd ever want to read but when a fellow book obsessed friend of mine told me that I had to read it and I had to read it immediately I took her advice . Boy am I glad I did ! This book is so well written the characters are great and the story is absorbing . I live near a circus museum and am now planning a trip to visit because of this book . I highly recommend it to anyone that loves a good story ! I 've also read Riding Lessons and Flying Changes and am eagerly awaiting her next novel ! ",4
"It 's OK . It 's long and not really eventful until the end . It took me a bit to get into it ",2
"It is very rare that I do n't finish a book . I just could n't find a single reason to continue reading the writing style is that of a children 's book in a strange combination with graphic sex and 21st century profanity both of which I do n't mind in the right setting the language does n't match the 30ies the cruelty to animals made me cringe and the story was predictable . ",0
"I found this book to be an engaging and interesting read . There were several authenticity and continuity issues that bothered me . During the era of this situation Fox Terriers were very common and used a great deal in entertainment . Jack Russel terriers are a relatively recent introduction to the US.Jacob gives his watch away and then it reappears . There are two or 3 other gaffs along this line that are annoying . It would be great if the author would put out a new edition with these things corrected.Rose the elephant is the real heroine of this novel and she provides the frame for the story . ",2
"I found Sara Gruen 's WATER FOR ELEPHANTS thoroughly enchanting in a very engrossing tale of the 1930s traveling circus Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth . Part wonder part adventure part tragedy and turmoil and part romance my first Gruen novel conveys a novel artistry in the settings characters prose and storytelling that resonated . Similar to another I read recently Cornwell 's rendition of Arthur we find a popular style of writing I find many authors choosing as of late a firstperson narration that shifts from a flashback when he 's 23 years old and to the present tense when he 's 90 or 93 . The flashback comprises the bulk of the book 's content over the span of 3 to 4 months when 23 yearold Jacob lands in a shady traveling circus amidst the historical backdrop of the Great Depression and the prohibition of alcohol . Normally firstperson flashbacks tend to affect a doleful disposition . Not so here . Remarkably I found the present happenings of our senile 90or93 yearold Jacob in a nursing home refreshingly funny and instructively captivating as we laugh and empathize with Jacob . I 'll never look at my grandmother the same way again . In fact the book derives its title from a grumpy Jacob grousing over another old man claiming to bring water for elephants in his younger days.Personal wants and simple plot devices prevented a perfect 5star rating on my part . I 'm impressed by Gruen 's research into the time period and traveling circuses and admittedly Gruen 's hypnotizing writing style symmetric storytelling and gritty characterizations far surpasses many of my 4 and 5star books . I read a 553page large print edition of WATER FOR ELEPHANTS containing blackandwhite photos of 1930s circuses and for the 100 to 200 pages I was enthralled . The wonder and the adventure of it had me smiling and on the edge of my seat . The book then settles down with the AugustRosenbluth character who factors in more and more prominently . Much of the plotting deals with August his wife Marlena and our protagonist Jacob as the third wheel at a private dinner or outing . August 's violent schizophrenia took center stage and the August character and his prominence choked much of my enthusiasm . Instead of August I was hoping for more wonders of the circus more Camel Walter and more plots with the animals of the menagerie . The castelike hierarchal circus society consisting of performers workers and rubes was very interesting but Jacob 's helplessness within that hierarchy although gritty and realistic proved altogether exasperating . I was hoping to see Jacob doing more whether helping the elephant or protecting Marlena both from August . I also found the ending a bit disappointing and anticlimactic I wanted to see at least one more chapter of closure in the flashback rather than relaying the aftermath in the present tense.At its heart the book expresses Jacob 's story of love an impossible love for his wife a love for animals and the elephant and of course a love for the wondrous circus . Unlike so many potboiler romance novels here 's a love between a man and woman that is n't so trite we have a sexuallyinexperienced redhaired 23 yearold college boy and the compassionate star of the circus who dares to love him and in return warrants his affection caring loyalty and love . Even though their first love scene is n't ideal by romance standards it nevertheless reverberates with passion and we witness Jacob 's joy for giving as she guides him . Granted it 's written entirely from Jacob 's perspective and even though the first lovemaking was n't scientifically precise again by romance standards the book captures how each gives their heart for the other . Everything is n't initiated by Jacob and that in itself was noteworthy . For myself love is about mutual giving and I always hope to see some semblance of that . WATER FOR ELEPHANTS does n't disappoint.I 'm astonished to read a very believable and resonating account of a male character written by a woman . In spite of Jacob 's frustrating helplessness at times I loved how realistic how passionate and how intense he was about the animals friends and love he cares for . I appreciated Jacob 's passion and intensity minus the inane repetitious introspection so common to the romance genre . No guys do n't think and muse about things for endless pages and Gruen thankfully discarded that element of the romance . Things are happening anyway so Gruen need not fill the pages with cheap introspection.The story actually begins with the ending . It was actually deftly done and Gruen fills in the details when we encounter the prologue at the very end of the book again . Ironically this added a measure of suspense to the novel . As I mentioned before I thought the book limped to its conclusion . I would have appreciated another chapter in the flashback depicting our protagonists in a new act with another circus.Still I found the reading experience a captivating novelty to say the least . ",3
"This book came recommended to me by a couple of friends but I wo n't recommend it to anyone else as long as there are plenty of other decent books to read out there.It was relatively engaging in that I was n't bored . And it has a lot of potential . But when I reflected on the story as a whole I realized it did n't accomplish anything interesting significant intelligently complex . I found it absolutely laughable that it had book club discussion questions at the end . For the life of me I do n't know what there is to dissect analyze or discuss about it ! I never felt emotionally connected to any of the characters except for the old man 's musings at the beginning on growing old and being ignored by family in the midst of their own busyness . Frankly I was surprised that the love story ended up the way it did because I did n't realize the love story part of it was actually to be taken seriously . The couple was so flat and void of chemistry.I did n't appreciate that the book started with a future event only to get to that actual part of the story and learn that it was quite different from what the prologue led me to believe . That kind of fakeout should be reserved for 1hour TV shows not books . It was sloppy and it set me as the reader on the wrong course for the rest of the book.About 23 of the way through the book I was just pushing through to finish it and say I finished it . Sometimes a book can redeem itself in the end but this ending was too ridiculous for redemption.I 've read some good modern fiction recently but this does n't make the list . It 's a real shame it 's going to get a bump in revenue because of the movie and because it 's a Robert Pattinson movie at that . sigh ",1
"It 's tough to be the sour note in a chorus of Hallelujahs . Water for Elephants disappointed me . I believed and liked the narrator Jacob a snarky old coot who apparently could n't stop complaining . I wanted to like this story . But I couldn't.The characters who accompanied Jacob on his journey were so strange and unbelievable that empathy was unachievable for me . To see them as anything but gargoylesque charicatures was impossible . Perhaps if they had n't been circus characters but everyday kinds of people like grocers and real estate agents they would have been more believable . Perhaps if they had not been so extreme in their outlooks histories and passions they would have seemed real . But we shall never know.As it stands the book is beautifully written with all the skill of language and prose that one could desire . It has an important theme and is chock full of human frailty and human victory . It even has elephant victory ! But it has a singular deadly flaw that scars the book so much for me that I can not enjoy it or recommend it.I AM glad to be in the minority with regard to this book . I AM glad for all those who are not bothered by the characters . May you read on in happiness . ",2
"WATER FOR ELEPHANTS by Sara GruenMay 15 2008Rating 4.55 StarsThere was a lot of hype surrounding this book the year it came out and I usually do n't like to read books like that until the fuss has died down a bit . A friend sent this to me and I finally found the time to read it plus it was also a group read . The book definitely does live up to its reputation and I will most likely list it as one of my favorite reads in 2008.WATER FOR ELEPHANTS is the story of a man who now in his golden years is reminiscing about his past and his days with a traveling circus . The book goes back and forth between the two time periods the present and the past Depression era and I think it was done quite nicely . Jacob Jankowski is the narrator and old man that is looking back on the eccentric life he had with the circus about the people he met and knew and the woman that changed his life . While Jacob sits in the old folks home his mind wanders back to those days often confusing the present with the past.His past takes us to his story of how he ended up with the circus just a few college exams short of a degree . His future was to be that of a veterinarian but that dream was cut short when his parents die suddenly and he does n't have the focus to continue . He loses the family home loses his bright future and has nowhere to go . Luck brings him to the train that carries the circus from one town to another . He hitches a ride and thus begins the adventure of a lifetime.The reader will discover that this book is not really about the circus . Yes most of the story line does take place behind the scenes of a circus but what WATER FOR ELEPHANTS is really all about is loyalty friendship and love and the relationships that Jacob develops during these years with the circus . Comparing Jacob 's current life in the seniors ' home to what he had in the circus is almost akin to that of a caged animal being locked up . Jacob 's time in this seniors ' home is stagnating him and he continues to look back at his younger years with longing . He remembers all that had transpired his relationships with his fellow circus entertainers and workers the circus ringmaster a cruel and dangerous man who had his gentle side and the ringmaster 's wife Marlena who is in a way imprisoned in a marriage that she ca n't get out of . In the middle of it all is a gentle elephant named Rosie who becomes an integral part of the circus and an animal that Jacob takes under his wing . It is Rosie 's relationship with several of the main characters that helps tell the story of these people leading back toJacob 's present state and where his last remaining days on earth will take him.I highly recommend WATER FOR ELEPHANTS . It 's an insightful story about people in an unusual setting . ",3
"Original tensionfilled and slightly bizaare . The right ingredients for me . I would recommend this to anyone who likes to read something different for a change . Good story . ",4
"Sara Gruen creates a Depressionera tale of a traveling Circus and fills it with some of the most memorable characters in recent fiction as well as a compelling tale of love and loyalty.Jacob Jankowski is struck with tragedy when his parents are killed in a car accident just as he is about to finish up his Veterinary degree at Cornell . Not knowing what to do with himself he jumps aboard a random train and finds himself on one of the Benzini Brothers Circus cars . He gets hired to be the circus vet and is tasked with keeping the menagerie of animals healthy.Things are not easy at Benzini and Jacob soon finds himself in the middle of the fiery relationship between the show 's Ringmaster August and his wife Marlena the horse rider . When a unique elephant named Rosie joins the circus Jacob forms a special bond as Rosie only responds to commands in his native Polish language.Gruen 's use of language and flashing forward and back between young Jacob and the 93yearold version of himself in the present are remarkable . This is a novel the reader will long remember after turning the final page . ",4
"I could not put it down buy how often do you need to here that to read a book . you will enjoy this . promise ",4
"vivid is the best way to describe it . very interesting portrait of the depression era ",3
"Fun book about the circus life of the 1930 's . Characters pretty well developed easy to follow . I especially liked the chapters about the old man and his thoughts about his life . Very real . ",3
"This well written story introduces the reader to the myriad of life that belongs to the Circus . The author developsthe characters from the top brass to the lowest workers who are sometimes thrown off the train while it is in transit . Some of the animals are more important than the workers The story is told in first person by a veterinary student who joins the circus after the tragic death of his parents His young life in the circus is contrasted by chapters describing the latter part of his life in an assisted living facility where he is left only with his memories . RB ",4
"2000 readers ca n't be wrong can they ? Umm yea they might be.How is it that a mediocre book can consistently get raves ? I was excited by the prospect of this book but the more I read the more resigned I became to the fact that there was nothing very extraordinary about it.Not only is the writing flat and the plot a giant cliche there 's also the matter of the central love triangle being blatantly lifted from Sophie 's Choice I cringe referring to that classic alongside this book right down to the suprise party angry accusation by a lunatic.Mediocrity is being rewarded with a big Hollywood movie starring Reese Witherspoon . Ahh American pop culture . ",1
"With a book like thiswhen i come on to review i check the negative reviews first . I could not believe there were ANY 1 star reviews tho i did read themand really found nothing i agreed with obviously i gave it 5 stars ! . But compare for yourself the amount of high reviews compared to low reviews.I read many many books and have for over 35 years . This is one of the best in every way . The writing style the characters the story the way it develops and i personally like the back and forth way of telling it the remembering . I LOVED IT . I would put it in my Top 20 and like i said i 've read many . The book is great what more can i say ? Enjoy ! ",4
"What a awesome read . I loved the characters . I did not see the movie so the ending was a bid of a shock to me in a good way . This was on my summer reading list . I could n't put it down once I started . ",4
"I 'm a little late to the party on this book but I just loved it . I had picked up Ape House her second book and got about halfway through before I gave up it 's really strange and awful . I would n't even have read this one unless it had n't been our book club pick.Now I understand the hype . I love fiction where you learn something and though this is no Grapes of Wrath it 's a great picture of Depressionera life and the information on circuses was absolutely fascinating if incredibly depressing . Put that together with a solid love story and I was sold.Chapters switching between times can be annoying as you 're essentially getting to know two different characters even if it 's the same person but I felt it worked well here.Highly recommended . ",4
"Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen is one of my alltime favorite books ! The story is told by an old man looking back on his life in the circus during the Great Depression . As a young man he joins the circus after his parents died in a car accident . There he discovers a whole new and strange world in the small traveling community . He learns the hard work involved in the back scenes of a circus as well as the harsh and sometimes tragic lives of the workers . It is n't long before he falls in love with the beautiful Marlena one of the star performers . Things are complicated though . She 's already married to the controlling and cruel head animal trainer.Get ready to cheer for the hero boo the villain and ooh and ahhh at the story that draws you into a bygone time and place . It 's a memorable book that will stay in your heart a long long time . ",4
"I liked everything about this book but I especially loved the contrast between Jacob as a young man and his life as a 90 or 93 year old . It 's one of those stories that older people tell that makes young people realize they need to sit down and talk with the elderly people they know or this type of story is going to be gone forever . Jacob 's story of the circus and falling in love were so moving but when you see what happens to Jacob as an old man it is bittersweet . I was expecting the end to be much more of a downer I thought the ending was very uplifting . ",4
"This was a Book Club selection last year and our group of seven were looking forward to enjoying a recent bestseller . None of us liked it . I thought the story about circus life was interesting but I did not like any of the characters and although I tried could not find a redeeming quality in any of them . I also did not care much for the writing style . Had it not been for Book Club I would have quit a quarter of the way . ",0
"After reading Water for Elephants when it was first published and then reading it again this week for book club it is no more clear than it was the first time . The first scene describes the stampeed and then it is remembered a different way later in the novel . Historic fiction ? Ok there have always been a traveling circus of some sort and circus performersthat 's as historical as I can get from this . Seems like the break no pun intended that the author had to take between writing the first half and finishing the novel was a memory fading event . From the reviews with so many enjoying this novel I can only surmise that those are from fond memories of seeing the circus which we did as children in Indiana many years agoShriner 's Circus makes me sentimental for my Grandparents and not necessarily this novel . Sorry I wanted to love this book but just could n't get by the change in memory . I will say that the flow between old and young memories other than the biggie were pretty fluent . ",1
"Abandoned dropout Cornell vetLooks after all the circus petsFalls in love with someone 's wifeOf her he 'll think for all his life.Barbara 's chest or the Fat LadyIt 's all good ol ' hyperboleThey 'll make you laugh and maybe cryBut you feel they 're just a circus sightWhen show 's over all shuffle homeMen to bars and tigers to bonesAdulterous romps can only so long lastHands part and hearts get stuck in the forever past.Must Love always beGood ol ' hyperbole ? ",2
"Well written book . I like a book that when I am reading it I feel that I am right there . ",3
"I liked the realistic history of the story . Knowing that was really what happened with the circus and animals . I just wished that reality was not so cruel to the animals or so hard on the people from that time in history . I love that it really tells that life and maybe we should look to see our older people with value and not something that we can just cast off . ",3
"Great novel . At first I was hesitant to read this despite the great reviews because I just couldnt understand how a novel about a circus could be any good but boy was I wrong . This novel has suspense and romance and you really understand and fall in love with the Jacob the main character . It is a must read . ",4
"Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen is a well told and well researched book about the early days of the American circus . The book is told both in the present and in 1931 by Jacob Jankowski . We start with him in an old folk 's home where he tells us he 's either 90 or 93 . He 's past caring at this point about pretty much anything . Then one day he sees a bunch of the other patients gathered at one of the windows . He goes over to see what they are all looking at and finds that the circus is in town and within throwing distance of his geriatric home.The appearance of the circus brings back memories of his first experience with the circus which began just as he was finishing his veterinarian degree at Cornell University . He goes through a tragic time and leaves in the middle of his final exams walking until his legs get tired . Where his legs led him was to the town 's railroad tracks . He jumps on the next passing train although it 's late at night and he 's not sure what type of train he 's just hitched . In the morning he finds that it 's a circus train and he 's taken on as the circus veterinarian.The book then goes through his time on the circus his interactions with the beautiful Marlena and her abusive husband August . Not only does August treat Marlena badly but he abuses the animals especially Rosie the Polishspeaking elephant taken on by Uncle Al the circus ringleader.I know not all people are huge fans of circuses but if you can stomach it I highly suggest you read this book . It 's obvious from her writing that Gruen has a soft spot for the circus and this time period . She wrote about it in a lovely way without being too easy on the circus operators . She showed the dark side of the circus beating animals low pay difference between working men and performers etc . without overdoing it . I never felt like she was trying to harp on about animal abuse or any of the other terrible things that used to happen in circuses . And the archive photos from Ringling and other circuses made the book even that much more fun to read . ",4
"This is a very wellwritten novel . The characters are realistic and the story is interesting . ",4
"I am always the one to come in late in the game . A book will become popular and into a popular movie before I read the book . But when I do I typically enjoy it . Well I was late with Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen.This is a story if you did n't already know that about an old man reminiscing about his life with the circus . Jacob is about to become an official vet during the age of Prohibition . Just as he is about ready to sit down and take his final exams he is informed that his parents were killed in a car accident and everything had been mortgaged too much . He now is without a family and a home . Instead of taking his exams he runs off and finds himself on a circus train.Jacob finds himself falling in love with one of the performers who is also the wife of his boss . It all gets ugly as his boss reveals physiological problems resulting in death at times . Jacob develops friends in the most unlikely places including that of a large elephant.Ms . Gruen does an excellent job going back and forth in time as Jacob is an old man dealing with growing old and as a young man not sure who he is or where his future lies . The loneliness of the assisted living is shown with deep emotion and the dirty side of the glamorous circus is laid out before the reader.This is one of those books that you 'll either love or hate . It is not action packed . Most of the action does not occur till very late in the book . The majority of the story is slow as it goes through many of the mental thoughts of Jacob and the detailed life of a circus performer and worker . I found it easy to put down and resume reading at a later time . But I am very glad I read it . It is a good read but a read that only those that prefer slower deep readings can enjoy.There is graphic language and scenes that might be offensive to some though they are not many . It is not a pretty story as the life of the circus was hard and dirty . This story depicts a seedy side of the glamor.Ms . Gruen did a great job bringing to life interesting characters that wo n't soon be forgotten.Note This book was borrowed by me from the library . ",3
"Water for Elephants was beautifully researched and written . It 's not only romantic but the history and thrills make this book hard to put down . I loved how Jacob transformed from young to old and of course the relationship with Rosie was amazing it brought tears to my eyes a few times . The twist ending is one of the best I 've read I 'm still in shock . Water for Elephants will forever be a favorite of mine . A definite mustread . ",4
"This book as expected is about the circus . But it 's about the circus in the early years.not the big stadium circuses we see today.The story is narrated by a 90year old man in a nursing home . He worked in the circus when he was younger and when he sees a circus setting up down the street he begins to reminisce . The story is told in two eras that of the man 's young years with the circus during the Depression and that of the man 's present time in the nursing home.I have to say that I looked forward to getting back to the book every day . I truly enjoyed it . It 's action packed thoughtful and different . I read this book very quickly ! ",3
"What a wonderful bookat frst I was n't sure I would like it but it just kept getting better and better . If you 're looking for a book that will lock you in.this is it ! ",4
"I bought this novel for my Nana long before it was made into a movie she loved it and raved about it to everyone . I felt very proud to have picked a good book for her . A few years later I read it myself and I fell in love . This book is delicious and a real treat . You will fall in love with every character and you will not want the circus to end.Even if you have watched the movie you should read the book it is as always so much more than the movie . ",3
"I was n't so sure I 'd like this book by it 's title but I loved it ! It 's a great read with a wonderful story line and characters with whom the reader becomes friends . I read it in one sitting could n't put it down . ",4
"I could not stop reading . As my first KF download I ca n't wait to read more stories like this . I was dreaming about the book last night I could write the sequel . ",4
"Water for Elephants is told by and about Jacob Jankowski a cranky but likable 90 year old or perhaps 93 man who resides in an assisted living center . The story maintains its momentum by alternating between the past and the present as Jacob recalls the circumstances under which he found himself traveling with the Benzini Brothers Circus.Through Jacob the author Sara Gruen presents us with a fascinating history of the American circus as well as a painful look at the time known as The Great Depression . Gruens storytelling technique is enhanced by the period circus photos circa 192030 that appear at the beginning of each chapter.The eccentricities of the characters as well as the alarming treatment of both animals and performers propels the story and mezmerizes the reader . The complicated interpersonal relationships of the circus family is deftly interwoven with that of the rest home family.I was truly seduced by this book . Reading it was an unexpected and astonishing adventure that continued to resonate long after I had read the last page and closed the book . ",4
"I found this book interesting.I loved the way the bad guys 'got theirs'and the ending was perfect ! I would recomend it to any older retired individualyou can see yourself in a lot of the story . ",3
"Water For ElephantsBy Sara GruenSo for this book I decided to jump had first into it without reading any reviews or even the synopsis . It turned out to be a very well written and beautiful story about love hardships and a circus . It 's the great depression 1932 prohibition is in full swing and like so many others a young man has had his entire life torn into pieces and ends up wandering straight into the adventure of a lifetime . Jake Jankowski the main character in our epic story is distraught when he is informed that both his parents have died in an automobile accident . After what we can only assume is a nervous breakdown while taking his final exams for veterinary school he walks out and continues until he can not bear to go any further . While resting near a train track as a train rumbles up and he decides to try to hitch a ride to the next town not realizing he has jumped aboard a circus train . From there he meets many characters who will forever change his life.I found myself falling in love right along with him hating the villain with a fiery passion and cheering for a quirky elephant named Rosie whom Sara Gruen describes so vividly that you ca n't help but smile . Sara Gruen manages to create a scene so well you can imagine yourself there but she never loses you with too many details . Personally I am torn whether or not I love this story . In the first half of the book when she is setting a scene she would add some explicit details that were n't necessary . Since she had already masterfully created her setting and by adding those I can only assume she was after shock value . I did enjoy the story but I have a hard time swallowing adultery I guess I have just been married too long . I can understand why the characters were drawn to each other and why she would cheat on her husband but I do n't personally enjoy it . In my opinion she could have used something else for her characters to overcome . It 's not like they did n't have three or four other obstacles to surmount . All and all I could n't put it down so I suppose I ca n't be too harsh . ",3
"The story moves cleverly between the world of 90 or possibly 93 year old Jacob in a nursing home as he tells the story of his life the Depression era and the circus world.He was twentythree and almost ready to take his final exam when he receives word that both of his parents were in a car accident and did not survive . There was no money as he sat to take his final exam to become a veterinarian . Feeling desperate Jacob jumps on a moving train instead . Having no idea he has jumped on a circus train he decides he has nothing left and starts working with the circus . He meets a beautiful woman Marlena but finds out quickly she is married to a madman . However she returns the attraction and a great love story begins.Water for Elephants is a compelling story that tells us all about growing old corrupt management animal cruelty wonderful animals kindness and loyalty between people and between people and animals in a world where indifference and cruelty are common.The author 's obvious extensive research of history and circus life added so much interest to the background of a wonderful meaningful love story.This is such a wonderful read and well worth your time ! ",4
"Found story very interesting . My dad traveled with the circus five years when he was young When I was young we went to every circus within 50 miles and I got to spend time in the back where most people do not see Loved seeing and petting all the animals . We stayed until cars were all loaded on thetrain . At that time the horses brought the cars to the tracks and then the elephants pushed them upon to the train . My Dad saw all but 2 of the states . I miss the real circus The ones today are only so so . ",3
"I bought this book on a whim at a bookstore at an airport while waiting for my flight . I could n't be more pleased with my purchase . I am generally not a fiction reader but this book was so real that I could n't put it down . The author tells the story from the viewpoint of a 90something year old man from start to finish . A young 20something almost done with veterinary school 's world comes crashing down when his parents are involved in a freak accident that causes their death . Not knowing what to do with his life Jacob signs on to work for a traveling circus . Not only does this book paint an accurate picture of its protagonist but it paints an accurate historic picture of life with animals traveling with a circus and the time period in which the book is set.I recommend this book to anyone . It is an easy and quick read that will impress you start to finish . ",4
"I could not put this book down ! ! ! Loved it . Wonderful story written beautifully highly recommended . I do n't usually tell my husband about the stories I read but I kept telling him about this one.I do n't understand some of the negative reviews I 've read about this book.I truly enjoyed it and wish there were more like it . ",4
"I appreciated the back and forth of the book 93 year old Jacob and then back to 23 year old Jacob . I must admit that I appreciated the old man 's story in the nursing home more than the kid on the train but that 's just me . The one thing I noticed right off the bat is that this writer took very seriously do n't tell show and show she does in sometimes tedious plodding even disgusting detail.This can actually become tiresome.I was surprised because my favorite author is a shower and I love to read her work but maybe it 's the fact that she has never written something as long as this.In anycase I have not gone through the thousands of reviews there are but there are over 1500 5 star reviews and I ca n't help but wonder if the protagonist was a woman and what happened to Jacob that night he drank entriely too much had happened to her would it not be considered a rape or sexual assault of some kind ? Has the definition changed since I was younger ? I just have a big feeling that if it was a woman who was drunk out of her mind and two overly friendly men thought they would welcome her to the circus at that very time in her state of no mind it would be all hell and high water in here not 1500 five star reviews . I dont understand why it 's different . Is that why if a man is raped he would rather suffer in shame than speak up ? Does he wonder who will take him serously ? Who will care ? You know what else gets me ? When you take away the wordiness of this book the premise plot and story of young Jacob is so painfully simple it 's not even funny there is NO development of the relationship between he and Marlena . Spoiler Alert It all boils down to boy meets girl boy falls in love with girl girl gets beat up by her abusive husband boy hates husband husband gets miraculously killed boy runs away with girl they have tons of kids and live happily ever after . The story of the circus was quite honestly just alright I dont understand the utter praise for this book . Is it because we are shown the innerworkings of a long ago circus is it because its ending seemed shocking ? Is it because four of the characters we get to know are sacrificed in the closing chapters ? I have no idea something has happened in our society where things that are just ok are slapped with excellent and pushed ahead with mind blowing . The same thing happened with The Help I actually saw someone refer to that one as a classic seriously ? You compare this to Frankenstein and Pride and Prejudice and Portrait of the Artist really ? If It were n't for 93 year old Jacob 's nursing home story I would not have given this book 3 stars . I 'd be down there hated with the ones and twos.Proudly hated with the ones and twos . ",2
"Could not put this book down . Eye opening and very well written . A must read for all book lovers . ",4
"This review refers to the audio CD . I have listened to perhaps 50 audio CDs and this voice is the best ! Some audio CDs I can not get through because I find the reader 's voice too irritating . This speaker is clear easy to listen to and does an outstanding job mimicing the characters . The story itself is one of the best I have heard or read in a long while . ",4
"I 've rediscovered my love of reading and this book helped in this effort . It 's one of the best books I 've ever read . It was very creative wellwritten and funny and serious at all the right times . The characters were vivid and believable and I could envision the traveled landscape . I highly recommend this one ! ",4
"I adored Water For Elephants when I read it the first time but it was on my second reading that I realized the extreme skill Gruen exhibits on every page and in every scene . Her prose is crisp and exacting and her characters are so vivid they leap to life in this story that grabs hold of you and does n't let go . I was literally transported to another place in time . I ca n't recommend Water For Elephants highly enough . This book deserves all the praise it 's received and then some . What a beautiful novela treasure for all who curl up with this gem ! ",4
"Secrets that we keep . Do n't all of us have them ? And will we ever tell ? This story told by the aged narrator skips back and forth in time but never loses the reader . We get a fabulous behind the scenes look at the old days of the circus world woven in with Jacobs secret . This one is definitely a keeper ! ! ",4
"I was hesitant to read is book because the storyline setting and timeperiod we 're not what I usually read . I was surprised at how much I got into this book and could barely set it down . You really MUST read this fantastic book you will not be disappointed ! ",4
"This book is a great read . Very enjoyable to learn about circus life . The author did a lot of research about the circus so it makes the story very real . I could n't help but cringe sometimes with the story of the animals but there is always a dark side to everything . Highly recommend it . An overall great book . ",3
"Water for Elephants came highly recommended from several friends but it fell a little short of great . The writing is good but the love story is a little lacking . In my opinion Jacob and Marlena did not have enough scenes together for me to truly believe that they were falling in love . I know the title is Water for Elephants but there was a little too much about the animals in this book and not enough about the people . I know it was about the circus but I guess I 'm the type who likes a betterdeveloped love story if I 'm going to buy it . I do n't want it to sound like I disliked this book . I did n't . It just was n't a story that blew me away . It 's a nice enough read for people who like sweet wellwritten books . ",3
"This is up on my top ten list of books . I loved this book when I started it I could n't put it down . Even my daughter who is not a reader per say read this book in one day . This is one I plan on rereading this book . ",4
"I was hooked from the beginning and looked forward to coming back to the story each time I had to turn off my Kindle . Coming of age in a circus might seem cliche yet the insiders view of the social dynamics that existed within a circus really put context around the whole running away to join the circus thing although in this case it might be more apt to describe this as stumbling into the circus . Regardless while I felt the end of the circus component of the story was somewhat predictable it did n't spoil the story for me . A truly remarkable story that I will enjoy again and again . ",4
"If you read a summary of the plot of this book it 's a little hard to swallow and frankly when my book club picked this one for June I was a little less than excited . Luckily I was pleasantly surprised.OK so I read this book on vacation on the lovely island of Mauiany book might be great in those circumstances . Still I found myself thinking about it often when I was n't reading . Even though the plot is romantic at the barebones level I never really felt like I was reading a romance . Gruen does a wonderful job descibing the details of the circus and I was more interested in the daytoday details of train circuses than the romance . I thought the interaction between characters and the historical element complimented each other well.If you read this book be sure to read the interview with the author at the end of the paperback edition . Interestingly Gruen admits that she had never been to a circus never been to a circus ? ? ? before writing this book . I see that as a testimony to the quality of her research and her writing . I also love the way she integrates real stories that she has heard from circus folks with her fictional tale all explained in the interview.Honestly I thought the prologue was kind of a sell out . This story does n't need the mystery the prologue tries to introduce . If you skip it you 'll get just as much or more out of the book.Overall definitely worth the read . One of my favorites so far this year . ",3
"Loved this book hard time to put it down . Gives alot more insight than the movie although the movie was very well done . ",4
"I got this book because it had such good reviews and it was recommended in my school library . I liked it but I was n't grabbed by it . It 's not horrible at all but just not my favorite . ",2
"A story based on facts about a depression era circus . Story follows a vet and others he befriends in one of 100 's of traveling circus 's of the time . A love relations develops but the main theme is the cruelty and hard life the crew and performers must endure who are essentially endentured servants . ",3
"Sometimes you just have to read a good story or in this case a very good story . You do n't need a lot of depth or socially redeeming value just a real good story with a very good narratorcharacter . This is that kind of book.The main character flees his final vetinary exams in a panic and joins the circus rather accidentally . There in the midst of the Depression he meets an assortment of interesting characters from roustabouts to sideshow attractions to performers to evil owners and animal trainers . Of course being the vet there are also the circus animals . He also falls in love.The characters are terrific especially the narrator who is introduced as a 93 year old gentleman reflecting on his past in the circus . There are brief snippets of him in the nursing home that touching and humorous . Beyond the characters that her narrator meets Ms Gruen also captures the flavor of the traveling circuses hanging on by a thread during the Depression and the financial desperation of the times . If one were to seek depth this book observes the dichotomy between the roustabouts who will work without pay just to have a job and prospects of pay and the owners who eat and live well on the burdensome work or others . But still it 's mostly a very good story.Although this book has been reviewed as a romance there is much more here besides the romance and more depth to classify it denigradingly as a chic book.The book is wellwritten and the characters all very good especially the main characternarrator . He is an everyman and a keen observer of the world and people around him . Highly recommended . ",3
"Found this to be a very entertaining book to read . Enjoyed the way the author took the main character from the present back into the past and back and forth . Also a good education on circus life during the time of the depression . ",3
"I thought the setting and milieu were much more interesting than the characters and their development . The background was interesting but the characters were not . They lacked depth and seemed cast as types rather than developed as characters who are realistic in their setting . ",2
"This is an excellent well writen book that takes the reader to a world that is seldom encoutered by the average person . It is a well researched account of the USA circus of 1929 including the good and bad . It was a glamarous facade hiding unimagined cruelty to animals and people . ",4
"A nice simple story . Entertaining but not great literature . Good circus anecdotes . Reasonably well researched but I noticed a few inaccuracies . Overall I was glad I read it . ",2
"I bought this on the strength of the movie and because I wanted to read something on my new iPad mini . It took me to a different time and place and it was a good quick read . If you enjoyed the movie you 'll appreciate the added detail that the book brings . The circus pix were a nice touch too . ",3
"So I read this book WELL before the movie came out . I was intrigued by a story that had a backdrop in a circus.But I was left really disappointed . I ca n't quite put my finger on it but I just did n't connect with the story at all . It may have just been the timing was wrong for me to read this story but I was not into it and I find myself rarely disappointed with books . I think there was n't enough magic in it for me . I did n't see the basis for the romance . Maybe I need to try to pick it up again but I was left so disappointed that I really do n't want to . ",2
"I could n't put this book down . The characters are well drawn and the details of circus life are fascinating . I got pulled in and hated for it to end . ",4
"Water for Elephants is a terrific light read about depression era circus life in the USA . Now of course this type of circus is almost extinct due to the cruel treatment of both animals and those that they marketed as freaks but there 's no doubt that almost as much action and adventure happened outside of the ring as inside . The Greatest show on earth was just as good a description of life on these itinerant circuses as it was to the events shown to they paying public . In the US these great circus extravaganzas travelled by rail and the collection of desperate workers preening performers and animals ensured an interesting mix.Sara Gruen 's tale begins with a wonderfully touching portrait of a 90ish old man Jacob now left to live out his days in a nursing home . But in his youth he was employed as a circus vet although unqualified and what a tale he recalls . Incidentally the name Jacob is clearly intentional as there are a number of references on the life of the biblical Jacob from Genesis although they are subtle and only add rather than distract from the story.Gruen has clearly researched her subject in great depth the addition of vintage photos from the era before each chapter that is devoted to the past is a nice touch and there 's a suggestion that at least some of the stories included either did happen or are rumoured to have happened . Just occasionally her explanations are a little clumsy but they are needed to explain some of the terminology . But most importantly she manages to get a sense of the faded grandeur and charged atmosphere of these great circus trains.At heart this is a love story with a list of characters that include a grumpy dwarf a drinksodden old timer a beautiful performer a naiive vet a mad director of animals a toothless lion and a charismatic elephant . What 's not to love ? A movie is due out shortly but although not having seen it of course it 's a fair bet there will be some Hollywood style sugar coating of this tale . The book includes both some steamy scenes as well as some gritty and potentially disturbing descriptions of animal conditions and it 's all the better for that dark side so read the book at least before seeing the movie . ",3
"Sensitive and moving story with some real insight into the aging mind as well as historical view of the old circus . A book both to entertain and learn from . One of those books you are sorry when it is over ",4
"I missed the movie so I bought the book . I read reviews both movies and books and am anxious to read this book . ",4
"There are good stories and then there are good stories that are wellwritten . This novel is the former . It delves into uncharted territory by putting a story to what it means to run away with the circus . It 's an interesting and creative topic . Like a lot of massmarket trade paperbacks these days the book is high on emotion and light on character development . It also exhibits a modernday trend of reading more like a screenplay than a novel . Events occur seemingly scenebyscene it 's helpful the train moves from town to town and the story is narrated by the older version of the main character offering up a voiceover to fill in where the dialogue is thinly written . The characters are also thin . The main character is one of the few whose past is somewhat explained cliche alert he experiences a tragedy then just happens to jump on a circus train speeding down the tracks . There is very little to go on about why choices are made . For example we are told how the characters are feeling through adjectives at the end of dialogue rather than the dialogue itself revealing what 's going on in a character . She said hesitantly knowing some people who read these reviews tend to click the negative button if anything critical is said . But she said happily anyone who loves character transformation projected onto animals will find this a winner . And everyone else should find it a good weekend escape . After all the good people and critters live happily ever after . ",2
"It is hard to find a book that can be described by these four words Brutal Moving Honest and Surprising . But Water for Elephants is just that novel . It is not for the faint hearted and the cruelty and squalor depicted rival some of the works of Dickens . But also like Dickens there is a sheer honesty and redemption to be found and as for the ending well I will not give anything away except to say that I did not see it coming . An outstanding book by an outstanding writer . ",4
"I like this book it is well written has an input to what it was the life in a cirque decades ago . Its the story of a young man with a sorry story that turns for the right way and falls in love . Deep characters and a well developed story . ",4
"The movie was okay but the book was very sexual and this was assigned for my daughter to read . Not happy ",1
"I have had Water for Elephants on my wish list for quite some time nowwhen the movie came out I thought I better read it before someone gave the ending away . As soon as I started reading the first line I could n't stop . I caught myself hiding my kindle under my desk so I could read the next few lines and holding my breath while doing so . This book is so brilliantly written I do n't even know how to review it . Sarah G. is so passionate about the animals and the characters in this book that you will find your heart breaks at certain turns and you cheer out loud for the loveable Jacob . I was so incredibly sad when it ended that I immediately ordered another book from Sarah G.The Ape House and I have to say I 'm equally enthralled by it . ",4
"Truth be told I was not interested in reading Water for Elephants . The subject matter a memoir of a 93 year old former circus veterinarian was not interesting to me . But this book got such rave reviews on Amazon that I decided to pick it up . And am I glad I did ! The book grabbed me from the first chapter . The author gives life to some very interesting characters and the reader gets a true behind the scenes look at the citizens who made up a circus during the depression . The narrator of the story is Jacob who runs away to join the circus after his charmed life takes a tragic turn . He gets a real life education . So did I while reading this book . I shed a few tears too . I could not put it down and did n't want it to end . I will highly recommend this book and I 'm so glad I read it ! ",4
"You will be glad you read this book before the movie even if the movie is true to it in detail . Few movies do their masterpiece books justice and this book is a masterpiece . ",4
"With 5438 reviews including this one most of what could have already been said about WATER FOR ELEPHANTS has probably already been said . But that 's not going to stop me from trying because I have confidence and determination and I often find myself in lineups where I 'm the one who appears out of line . And when weirdness and eccentricities are encouraged it tends to work better than MiracleGro and direct sunlight and watering.Jacob Jankowski proves more than a little odd beneath his shirt collar . He has flashbacks to his circus days where he spent all of his time shoveling excrement and smashing watermelons and filing toenails Rosie 's and hopping on trains and off trains and carrying knives between his teeth and chasing after married women and chasing after elephants and shoving his hand in a tiger 's cage and waiting for the flag to drop and speaking Polish most of which I did n't understand and training elephants and speaking more Polish . But I could relate rather easily because I spend much of my time staring at white space and filling it with Times New Roman font and pretending that people actually think I 'm witty and charming and wonderful when my reviews and novels are placed in avid reader 's hands . Because if Jacob had n't skipped out on one life to chase after another and I could n't pretend I was someone else for hours at a time the real world might close in faster than a mushroom cooked in a skillet.But I was n't blissfully ignorant after this tale though . Finding out many of the antidotes contained in this story were at least partially or in some cases wholeheartedly based on actual events with the names changed to protect the guilty proved a rather outstanding addition . Since on occasion I do like the prospect of getting smarter especially when I can have fun while doing it . And this was a rather enjoyable tale with Uncle Al and Rosie and August and Marlena and Kinko and plenty of other secondary characters with fullfledged personalities who proved to be more than just a series of caricatures thrown in for good measure to make the main character look pretty and exciting and interesting.Set during a rather depressing time in our nation 's history this story was n't the least bit depressing although men were tossed from the train faster than shot glasses tossed back at a bar by some guy with antelopes for arms . While that might turn folks off I was rather pleased with the thought of bubble gum and candy corn and candied apples . If I want to feel dejected and disheartened I can find plenty of reasons to sit in a corner with my head pushing against my ankles thank you very much . I do n't need it from a vessel that I like to use as an escape hatch from the real world where fairies and wands and cooch tents and sexy sheer night gowns and sixdollar smiles and twodollar whores can be had whenever the mood strikes.If I did n't end with more than a few words on Barbara though my world would n't be complete . She commanded center stage at the cooch tent with her foot long breasts and feminine wiles and brown nipples the size of paper plates and painted expressions as she danced and swung her hips like a supermodel down a runway . Her happy sacks increased in width at the end and her smudged lipstick and smokin ' tobacco and sexy sheer nightgown where I could literally see and hear her bare breasts slapping together . All of which resulted in a totally titillating experience from which I shall never be the same.As for this novel it proved to be a rather entertaining escape from reality.Robert DownsAuthor of Falling Immortality Casey Holden Private Investigator ",3
"This book was highly recommended to me but it took a couple tries for me to get started . Once the circus train has left the station however it is a very engaging narrative . ",3
"I almost exclusively read nonfiction with perhaps one or two novels a year thrown in for a diversion . This book was given to me and came with highest recommendations so I started reading it on a plane trip . I am normally not especially captivated by fiction but suffice it to say that I read the book over the course of one day because I enjoyed the characters so much . The book is told in flashbacks by a 93 year old man and addresses his years as the vet on a circus train . I found the wraparound scenes of Jacob useful for the introduction and the wonderful conclusion but if there was one thing I would have changed about the story it was the incessant excursions to the present sprinkled throughout the story which really do n't advance the plot other than to explain some issues about senior care in an assisted living community.The book begins with a delightfully deceptive prologue setting the reader up for a surprise at the climax . I must admit that I had my suspicions about the murder in question but found the execution to be more skillful than I had imagined . The victim August is a megalomaniac with a temper and forms one point in a love triangle with the protagonists Jacob and Marlena . The circus run by slimy vermin Uncle Al is well fleshed out with interesting characters and terminology that Gruen incorporates flawlessly into the book . I found the character of Walter Kinko the Clown to be the perfect complement to play off of Jacob and their relationship was one of the most interesting parts of the novel for me.Gruen handles difficult situations well even delving into dreams vividly as when she relates Jacob 's nightmare of struggling to get back on the train while pursued by malevolent animals Behind us a wall of badgers . In front of us a dozen alligators . Her turn of phrase and tendency to sly understatement is notable throughout and adds to the story as much by omission as by overt statements . The pivotal murder is one of the most brilliant ever concocted and the subtlety of its telling particularly in contrast to the version in the prologue is exquisite the wording was changed very slightly to enlighten the reader to a plot twist that may or may not have been expected but nonetheless was wonderfully executed . The ending of the book was likewise unexpected inasmuch as the reader is so focused on the story of Jacob in the circus they are n't giving as much consideration to the 93 year old who is actually narrating the book.As I mentioned before there is more narration here than is absolutely necessary but then again I normally read technical nonfiction and as an animal lover the cruelty to animals is appalling even if it 's fiction and despite it being historically based although admittedly necessary to develop the plot . I mention this as the book may not be suitable for some younger readers for this reason . I found Gruen 's choice of the name Jacob and the obvious Biblical references to Jacob found in Genesis compelling and one of the things that separates this book from most contemporary fiction.Although light reading on one level this book also deals skillfully with difficult issues has excellent character development and a couple of great plot twists . Also included are interviews with the author and a set of book group discussion questions which were not written by Gruen and which I found contrived and dull.Water For Elephants did what a good novel is supposed to do it captivated my interest from start to finish and I could n't put it down . I recommend it without reservation for anyone wanting to read a wonderful contemporary novel about true love murder and reflection . ",4
"I was at a bookstore a couple of years ago holding Water for Elephants when someone came and told me that this book was depressing . Since I never liked circus and I was not in the mood to read about circus in the first place I took that comment as a cue to not read this book.Since then the number of 5 stars reviews has been growing and growingI spotted Water for Elephants recently at the public library and decided to give it a shot . That woman that told me a couple of years ago that this book is depressing could n't be more wrong . And this is not a book about circus either . Sure enough the circus is on the background but this is basically a love story during the Great Depressionprohibition a time in our history that we should never forget.It is very well written with the right balance between characters development and action . It is above all good entertainment made to the contemporary readers . ",4
"This is a very interesting read because it describes in great detail a segment of life in the US that is not often known and was experienced by relatively few people . The story revolves around a traveling circus and the many characters who live with and work for the show . I will not go into any detail about the story other than to say that it is very well written in a style that allows the reader to really see what is going on . Without giving away anything the story is told from the perspective of the main character as he recounts the events that happened so many years ago . What happens to him at the very end is what generated the discussion . Was it a realistic ending or just a romanticized but unrealistic conclusion to the story ? I urge you to read it and post your thoughts here . ",3
"Was an awsome book best I 've read would suggest it to all my friends Diffrent than I have read but very very good ",4
"I enjoyed this book for the most part particularly the characters and the tales of circus life . I would have given it 5 stars but thought the ending was weak . Also the jumping from nursing home to circus and to nursing home was distracting . ",3
"What a fantastic read . I had seen the movie and I wanted to read the book as well . I am so glad I did . Though the movie followed it very well the book gives you more indepth information that leads you along their thoughts and some of the behind the scene activity that the movie could not show.Sara Gruen is a marvelous writer and so descriptive with her writing . You could almost smell the sweat of the men the hay the booze . You could hear the music and feel the drums pounding as the animals entered the Big Top.The story was so well told that it made you feel what Jacob felt both as a young man and as a 93yearold man.I highly recommend it to anyone ! ",4
"We meet Jacob in a nursing home with the story weaving his current existence and tribulations with his past life as the 'vet ' of the Benzoni Brothers Circus at the time of Prohibition his love for and ultimate marriage to Mailena and finally the story finishes with a most unexpected chain of events . ",4
"This is the absolute best book I 've read in a long time . I only wish it had been 1000 pages longer so I could have kept reading it for a longer time . The characters were well developed and the story was fantastic . Great escape . ",4
"I do n't normally read books based in this era but I found it to be very interesting and it was hard to put down . This was my first Ebook downloaded onto my Kindle and it was great ! I especially liked the pictures of the circus that Sara Gruen included in her book . It was very easy to picture the characters while reading . Well done ! Now I may rent the movie to get another perspective . ",4
"I just love it when the circus comes to our town and when I read Water for Elephants I was impressed with Sara Gruen research into several topics the circus life and the great depression . I 'm not sure how Ms. Gruen managed to get herself into the head of a 93yearold man but I loved the old man that narrated the story.The story is a mysterious and historical tour of behind the scenes of circus life . The deception and downright cruelty takes place . As far as I was concerned Rosie the lovable elephant was the star of all the animals ' maybe it 's because I just love elephants.I wo n't go into detail about the story because other reviewers have already done a terrific account of the story . I would like to add that I found myself still thinking about the long suffering of the animals long after I finished the book . In summary the romantic scenes were weak but still a great story . ",3
"The book was better than the movie . Characters seemed real . Liked the detail about the animals and life on the rails . ",4
"So many reviews have already been written about this wonderful novel so I 'll just say that I enjoyed it very much . In fact it is one of the best novels that I 've read in the last 5 years . The construction of the novel is clever the characters are welldrawn and the plot is very compelling . Gruen made two wise decisions in structuring the story a starting with the big event that the rest of the story retroactively leads up to and b having Jacob Jankowski narrate the story long after the events as an old man in a nursing home . These choices give the story extra tension poignancy and depth they 're the novelistic equivalent of adding 3D to a movie . Gruen obviously did extensive research to capture what it was like to work and live in a depression era travelling circus . ",4
"I loved this book . Cleverly written after detailed research by the author . Scholarly wellwoven storylines gives a wonderful look at those magical olden days of the dark side of the depression and the people who attempted to escape into the private world of the traveling circus . ",4
"I found this book very slow and hard to get into for the whole first half then when things started moving along it seemed to end so quickly and violently . ",1
"This novel flows smoothly . It is a linear type of story line once one gets into the past . What I did not like about this novel is that the author is a female while the protagonist is a male . One of the things we studied in literature was that a female author can not truly portray a male character . And in this case I agree . Jacob is more girlboy than man . He is cowered by Marlena 's husband all the time . He is unadventurous when it comes to sexual escapades he is just too shy too immature to appeal to me . Also the love story was not developed well at all . There is no palpable attraction . Marlena is created into the damsel in distress stuck with an abusive husband and Jacob is thrown in to rescue her . I think this damsel in distress aspect has been over done . However it may have worked had the author actually spent a bit more time on developing the h and h 's attraction relationship.However I did enjoy all the author 's research . She did a good job transporting me on that circus train living the way those people probably did . ",2
"This book was overrated and extremely boring ! The characters were not relateable and I had to stop reading half way through . ",0
"Wonderful fast paced read . Not once was I bored with this story ! I laughed cried and was angrered in some parts but this is what the best books do . This will start filming May 22nd starring Robert Pattinson Reese Witherspoon and Christoph Waltz Inglorius Basterds . Read this book ! ",4
"Sara Gruen has created an engaging memoir narrated by the nonagenarian veteran and veterinarian of a depressionera circus . Her research into the caste hierarchy and politics of train circuses reveals a world which much like HBO 's Deadwood had its own laws of lawlessness and morality of immorality . Into this world Jacob Jankowski is unwittingly dropped and the recounting of his evolution from inheritor of his father 's veternary practice to circus vet to aged resident of an assisted living facility is almost always convincingly told . While Jacob may be the heronarrator it is most definitely Rosie the elephant who steals the show and wins your heart . Like the rubes who paid their nickels and dimes to gawk at the freaks I felt my $ 14.37 was well spent for a 332page peek behind the bigtop . ",3
"I never wanted this book to end . It was so interesting to read about living with a circus . One never knows what goes on behind the curtain and this story reveals the characters and their personal lives during the era of the 30 's . I want to go hug an elephant after reading about Rosie . This book is a real page turner . It would make a great movie . ",4
"All children with old parents should read this book.Could not put it down . Would like to read more books by this author . ",4
"I never found a book that so accurately portrayed growing old and how you are treated . The story begins with life in the circus ",0
"I enjoyed this book from start to finish.I 'm not sure what it was exactly but it very much reminded me of Life of Pi which I also enjoyed.Jacob appealed to me as a character and I became genuinely interested in the fates of both rosy and the circus people.I preferred the chapters relating to Jacob 's memory over those where he was an old man but this does n't take away from the overall quality of the book . Although it is a fiction story I like that it was grounded with research and a combination of true stories which made the book feel more real.After reading the book I also watched the movie but as many people always say when they make a book into a movie it wassnt half as good . ",4
"This book is a captivating potrayal of circus life during the depression years . I believe that the author missed an opportunity this book could have been longer and still held our attention if she had told more about the llife of the protagonist between youth and old age . Perhaps there is a sequel that could be written . The characters in the book are a fascinating mix and the author successfully describes the mix of good and bad characteristics that exist in all of us . ",3
"We choose Water for Elephants for out bookclub by recommendation from one of our member 's husband . He is not a fan of reading and said he could not put the book down . I must say he gave us an excellent book to read for I could not put it down either.Going back and forth from present to past was seemless and spellbinding . A great read for a book club or for just one 's general enjoyment . ",4
"As an animallover and not a fan of the circus I felt a little wary of the setting and subject matter when beginning to listen to the unabridged audio version of WATER FOR ELEPHANTS . But soon I was totally hooked by the two narrators young and old voices of Jacob and by Gruen 's evocative language and masterful storytelling . Like another readerreviewer I was reminded of family stories about the Depressionand of all we can go through and live through . ",4
"I read the entire book while in the air on a roundtrip cross country flight . It is a real page turner ! The action was so captivating that it was hard for me to hear the flight attendant ask if I wanted anything to drink . The violence was difficult for me but I managed to skip over most of it . I loved the many good and happy surprises in the end . ",4
"Jacob Jankowski is 90 or 93 he ca n't remember and living in a skilled nursing facility . One day the circus comes to town . This triggers a flood of memories because when both his parents were killed in an automobile accident he fled his senior year as a vet student at Cornell and hopped a train for anywhere . It just happened to be the train carrying the equipment performers and beasts of the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth.The owner of this circus finds out Jacob is practically a vet and signs him up . Thus positioned Jacob observes how property animals and people are treated by the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth . Hint do n't lose your horse drink the lemonade or fall asleep as the train travels over a river.The book starts off with a terrible circus accident . I deduced the nature of the accident immediately and the perpetrator soon after the character was introduced.The final reckoning of life for Jacob occurred at the end of the book . I did enjoy this unexpected twist . Good for Jacob ! As circusthemed books of fiction go A Son of the Circus by John Irving The World According to Garp was more thorough and complex . In Water for Elephants there was a clear distinction between the good and the bad.I 'd rate this book PG13 for the few explicit references to sex . The big themes for book club discussions ? Aging the exploitation of circus animals and the exploitation of people.The other books I kept thinking of as I read this one were in addition to A Son of the Circus the Life of Pi Yann Martel and Recessional James Michener . ",2
"The book is worthy of the praise it has received and its position on the Best Seller lists . The film is a total travesty from screenplay to cast.Why trash the Kindle edition with a terrible cover ? Even if no one sees the cover on their Kindle viewing it online is a reminder of how badly Hollywood butchered the book . ",0
"This is a book that you ca n't put down . The characters are great and the plot is interesting . I loved it ! ",4
"I really like all the stories in this novel . The characters are people I would like to have lunch with and get to know . ",3
"First of all this book was waaaaay more sexual than I thought it would be . If you are getting it for a friend because they like elephants and the title has elephant in it DO N'T DO IT long story . This was a crazy story funny at times and also sad at times . The story was told by switching between the past and the present which was confusing at first but made sense later . This style of writing kept the story moving the shift from the old senile man to the young eager man developed the main character in such a way that it was difficult to put the book down . I enjoyed reading this book and I reflected on it for a while after I finished reading it . ",3
"A wonderful adventure colorful descriptions of life in a Depressionera traveling circus and characters that will touch your heart . What more could you ask for ? ! ",4
"I read the book at a friends home and decided I needed it for my own bookshelf . This book is about growing old and how the memories do not . ",4
"I enjoyed reading Water for Elephants with it 's many mini stories throughout . The characters were believable Jake as the 91 or 93 year old and his remembering of his life as a 23 year old . Anyone who has been to the yesteryear circus will recognize the descriptions of the circus coming to town and the excitement of the residents . There are funny incidents and sad ones that make up this book and the usual good and bad characters we all encounter . I admired the 91 year old Jake for his spunk when he took charge of his life as I admired the 23 year old Jake when he did the right thing for the animals of the circus . A great story that is heartwarming too . ",4
"Water For Elephants is a remarkable accomplishment a wonderful book with colorful unforgettable characters . It is by turns heartwarming heartbreaking exciting and horrifyingwith an ending that took me by surprise . I enjoy circus stories and have read several none as good as this one with the exception of Gus the Great . If you 're old enough to remember the film The Greatest Show on Earth this is it but without the slick DeMille romanticism . Water for Elephants is raw and realistic one man 's life in a circus and in a nursing home . There are other reviews here that give details of the plot so I wo n't repeat what they 've said.There is a lot I loved about this bookthe character of Jacob the circus atmospherethe story itself . It has many remarkable elements.One of the most remarkable is the nursing home part of the story . The author appears to be fairly young several decades too young to know what it feels like to be elderly to know you are failing physically to be afraid you 're failing mentally to remember vividly when you were young and know you will never be young again . Yet she very convincingly shows you the heart and mind of a feisty old man . All in all it 's one of the best historical novels I have ever read . I wish I had written it.The above was the text of my original review and I stand by it . However something vauguely bothered me about the book . Then following a discussion I reread it and did a little research of my own . Now I know what it was . She is several years too early in her use of paranoid schizophrenia . By the time the old man is TELLING the story it would be in use but certainly was not in use at the time she has a character using the term and this seems like insufficient possibly sloppy research . The other thing was the slaughter of several horses by cutting their throats . Horse people I know questioned it . A horse is big and powerful and would be frightened not likely to let it happen unless he was heavily medicated . It seems done only for the effect of the gore . A properly placed gunshot would serve and be more merciful more logical.However I still think it 's an outstanding book even with the flaws and I still wish I 'd written it . ",3
"Much better than the movie . A short read and if you 're an animal lover you will never want to see a circus again . ",4
"If you 've ever had to write a resume you 've come across the dilemma which counts for more ? Experience or degrees ? The answer of course is experience the real question being how one describes that crucial intangible . Water for Elephants is the story of a man 's youth the experience he gains in a short period of time . Essentially it begins with him walking out on his final college exams and jumping a circus train almost accidentally . This book is actually structured as a series of flashbacks with the main character in roughly the present day bracketing each chapter with comments about his current situation in a nursing home as contrast to his past adventures . The main action takes place during the Great Depression making for a fairly historical novel.Water for Elephants may feature a fairly original character with some serious common sense deficiencies but Sara Gruen clearly did her research in terms of depictions of the period inclusion of trade lingo and depictions of animal behavior . The adultery will probably keep it off high school reading lists but I found it a pretty good window on what it depicted of the world outside of the circus . This particular copy of the book also includes some commentary at the end regarding real circus history and anecdotes that were included in with the fiction . Other than that I know too little about life under the big top to comment on the depiction of events other than to say that trains often did go slow enough to jump back then even in the countryside unlike now.I read this novel in less than a day finding it to be a very compelling read with a plot full of twists even though the most climactic scene is also presented as the hook in the beginning preface chapter . I would generally recommend it to everyone even if you think you would have a problem with some aspects of it . Try to give it a chance . The main character is a vet for example and while animals are harmed in this circus he does n't like it any more than you . ",3
"I loved this book ! Honestly the only reason I picked it up was because of the movie with Robert Pattinson yes I knowI rarely justify the reading of a book with an actor . I really enjoyed the time setting for this book and the behind the scenes look at the life of a circus worker back then . I also liked how the entire book was n't just a love story and how nicely it was framed within the overall novel . This is definitely a book that I would recommend and read again ! And just as a side note the move was awesome as well ! ",4
"I have to admit I enjoyed this book the settings were very interesting and the main character Jacob was very likable.However I was incredibly disappointed by the love story that takes center stage . If you 're looking for a book with a female lead you can root for this is DEFINITELY not it . Marlena is the main star of the equestrian act and loves horses and for that and that alone you are supposed to love her.The two of them Jacob and Marlena bond over their shared passion for animals he 's the circus vet and hiding from her crazy husband but there is no real spark between them to latch onto as a reader and their whole relationship leaves something to be desired . Actual chemistry maybe ? In addition to that the storyline is often incredibly contrived to a point where by the end I could n't bring myself to buy into any of it anymore.An amusing read just the same but I did n't find it to be all it was cracked up to be . ",2
"I enjoyed reading the book immensely . Learned a lot about the circus life through the book . I would recommend to all ! ",3
"This is an interesting book . It 's well paced and the story keeps pulling you along although I ca n't think of a single thing that makes it stand out . It 's not mysterious or adventurous and has very little romance in it yet you keep reading . Maybe it 's just plain good story telling . ",3
"I just simply loved this book ! The unfavorable comments posted here did not impress me in the least as I thoroughly enjoyed it . Does every writer have to conform to the same oldsame old standards ? The atmosphere of the circus came through as though you were there ! I will be reading her other books . ",4
"I got this book because I absolutely adore the movie but I think the book was just slightly better . The movie is still worth watching but the book seems sow ell put together . It has a wonderful amount of information that 's accurate and the book is entertaining us more romantic readers . Fortunately there is so much more inbetween it 's also beautifully written.The novel is based around Jacob our narrator of the past and the present . One moment he is a cranky old man who 's not sure of the year the next he 's a veterinarian for the Benzini Brothers circus . Where he is falling in love with his wife and taking risks to get to her and protect her before she is even his . Then he old alone and in a nursing home . It seems Mr. Jankowski 's life will forever be with the circus.At times the book was a bit tedious over describing the circus scene and it 's acts or just bombarding us with useless information.I loved the flawless flow from past to present with our narrator every time it feels like we 're jolted from a nap the same way Jacob is when we 're back in his present . ",4
"If you like adventure romance suspense and excitement read the last third of Water for Elephants . The first twothirds set the stage for a thrilling ending but that 's all . Although Gruen 's style of writing is rich with varied vocabulary and description the elements of the first part of the plot evoke little to no emotion in the reader . Even if the author did n't spend a hundred pages building the backstory the strange sexual elements that rear their ugly faces every few pages completely ruin the enjoyment of reading this book . If you want to spend 300 pages wondering why you 're reading this story then pick up Water for Elephants and enjoy the most boring story you have ever read . ",1
"Gruen pens an allencompassing story of intrigue heartbreak and hope with Water for Elephants . It 's 1931 and Jacob Jankowski is preparing to take his final exams in veterinary science when he receives the shock of his life his parents were killed in a traffic accident . With no home to go to he travels the rails until he hops onto a circus train.Camel Joe takes Jacob under his wing and ensures the young man gets a job . Jacob soon becomes the vet for the animals but it 's his interactions with August Uncle Al and Marlena that challenge his convictions . When Rose the elephant joins the circus Jacob is put to the test . Will he follow his heart and stand up for his beliefs or walk away ? Gruen 's writing is easy to read . She 's done her research and it shows . I especially liked how she used pictures to frame each chapter . The storyline is interesting . Jacob is comingofage and has to make decisions that are n't easy . The story alternates between old Jacob and young Jacob and while not linear Gruen pulls on the reader 's heartstrings with the challenges old Jacob faces . When a modern circus comes to the assisted living facility old Jacob feels the tug of circus life bringing the story full circle.For me the best part was going on the emotional journey with the characters . They are very real with strengths and weaknesses that touch the reader 's emotional core . The supporting cast is just as endearing.The book 's plot is original and interesting . The setting is American circus life in 1931 and Gruen does a wonderful job making the reader believe the authenticity of the setting.The novel is mainstream fiction and while I was a bit hesitant to initially read a story about a circus Gruen quickly sold me on the novel . I could n't put the book down . Water for Elephants will resonate with readers long after they 've finished it . I highly recommend this book . ",4
"Fantastic book ! I would recommend it to anyone ! I love all the detail the author puts into each character . It 's a great love story as well . ",4
"Jacob Jankowski runs away from his ivy league veterinary education when his parents die in an accident and joins a circus on impulse . His training serves him well and provides him a place of esteem among the performers and the workers an odd position which spans both groups . He falls for the lovely Marlena who performs with the horses but she is married to August a violent but charismatic animal trainer . The story culminates when the circus purchases an elephant named Rosie whose intelligence hides behind her thick skin.Some of the best scenes in this book are those in the nursing home when Jacob is an old man who ca n't remember if he is 90 or 93 . The writing is sensitive believable and these moments are some of the most emotional snippets from the book . That is not to say that the rest is boring . Gruen has written a real page turner and although it is not entirely original it is incredibly entertaining . ",3
"Wonderful book . Very sensual at places and in others actionpacked . It was nice how the author gave the differing viewpoints . Great depressionera book . I highly recommend it . ",4
"I took this book with me on a recent trip to South Africa and was delighted to have something to read that was so engaging that the time passed quickly . The story grabbed me from page one . It 's an unusual story beautifully written and with welldrawn characters . Although going back and forth between the past and present day was a little disorienting I enjoyed getting to know Jacob as a 20something and as a 90 or 93 year old man.I really liked the device of using the prologue later in the story . And I loved the ending it was perfect for the story even though it 's implausible and unbelievable . Sometimes that just does n't matter . Sometimes it works anyway . Everything about this book worked for me . ",4
"While I recommend this book the slow upstart did little to urge me further . However by the time the key players are in place the plot picks up and makes for a fascinating love story with a gritty kick . My only real complaint is that the main character felt foreign to me throughout the book but he seems to come into his own by the conclusion . This book will make an excellent movie . ",3
"Water for Elephants is an amazing book . The author took my mind into places I just did not want to go into what it means to be a person at the end of life still coherent but old and sick and living in a nursing home.At the end of your life is that all that 's left to hope for that you end up in a nursing home with kids younger than your grandchildren bossing you around and moving you back to your room against your wishes after an argument with another nursing home resident ? Is this what the end of life means an adult becomes a dependent child who must be bossed around by others even if that person 's mind and intellect are still intact ? Wow . Of course I know these things happen but never in fiction have I seen the final years of a person 's life etched to the pages in such an emotional and moving way . ",4
"Water for Elephants was recommended to me by a coworker and I was really surprised at how much I liked it . A book about a circus did n't necessarily appeal to me but I figured it was worth a shot.This story is great . I really enjoyed the way the story alternated between Jacob in present day and Jacob 's memories . In both times he was heartwarming and sincere even if he could be a bit cranky in his older age . The characters were greatwelldeveloped and dimensional even the ones you did n't particularly like . The whole circus feels very vivid and I just loved Rosie to death.Overall it was just a very enjoyable read with enjoyable characters well mostly unless they were n't supposed to be . One thing that I found unexpectedly interesting was the circus dynamicthe cruelty the hierarchy the crazy characters . All in all this is a very wellrounded novel and I would recommend it to anyone . ",3
"This book was better than I expected . The ending was happy but not cliche my favorite kind ! An easy quick entertaining summer read ! ! ",4
"This book was an excellent way to spend my time . I learned so many things about the circus that I did not know before . Although you do not need to be interested in the circus to enjoy the book . It does not bog you down in unwanted details . It gives you enough to paint the picture for the background of the story . It helps you to identify with the love story which unfolds before your eyes . ",3
"Water for Elephants is another of those novels that I somehow managed to miss reading when it was at its peak of popularity this time by well over two years . But I 'm here to tell you that in the case of Water for Elephants it is definitely better late than never.Even in Depressionera America Jacob Jankowski is doing pretty well for himself . He is a Cornelltrained veterinarian who only needs to sit for his final exams to make it official . He thinks he is in love but his lack of experience with the ladies means that he is more likely to be in lust than in love . For him life is still pretty good.But things change sometimes when one least expects it and for Jacob change comes in the form of a tragic traffic accident that claims the lives of both his parents . As bad as that is it gets even worse when he learns that he has also been left destitute because his parents mortgaged everything to pay his Cornell tuition and Jacob finds that he can not sit still even long enough to finish his exams . Wanting to get away from it all he hops the first freight train that comes along avoids getting thrown back onto the tracks and soon enough finds himself a member of Benzini Brothers traveling circus.Sara Gruen lets Jacob tell his own story by alternating the first person narrative of ninetysomethingyearold Jacob now living in a nursing home with the voice of twentythreeyearold Jacob as he experiences his summer with the Benzini Brothers . And what a story it is because the Benzini Brothers circus is not exactly The Ringling Brothers show and only circus owner Uncle Al tries to pretend that it is . Everything about the Benzini Brothers is second rate the ragged animals in the zoo 's menagerie are badly treated and lucky to eat once a day the roustabouts and other workers are not paid consistently the freaks are usually fakes or not all that freakish in the first place and the girly show performer has been known to take paying customers after show hours.Jacob manages to catch on permanently with the show even with his incomplete veterinarian credentials and all goes relatively well until he falls in love with two ladies Rosie the elephant who joins the circus after he does and Marlena the beautiful young equestrian performer unfortunately married to the sadistic August a man who beats both Marlena and Rosie.Gruen paints an unforgettable picture of life in a smalltime Depressionera circus an environment filled with filth underfed animals and humans cruelty alcohol abuse varying degrees of crime lust and callousness . Jacob appalled at what he sees and what he learns about August Marlena and Uncle Al fights to maintain his sense of decency in a world he never knew existed but his love for a married woman and his guilt at not doing more to defend Rosie from the beatings she suffers at the hands of August has him doubting himself.Surprisingly as intriguing as the young Jacob 's story is the nursing home predicament that the older Jacob finds himself in is an equally touching one . The audio version of Water for Elephants 10 CDs and 11 hours long is read by David LeDoux as the young Jacob Jankowski and John Randolph Jones who turns in an absolutely brilliant performance as Jacob the old man . Frankly both of the worlds created by Gruen are somewhat horrifying and both will linger in my memory for a long time.Water for Elephants is however a tiny bit blemished by its unlikely ending even though it is the kind of fairy tale ending that I personally would have wished for Mr. Jankowski . Some things though are just too good to be true or to ring true in a novel even as good as this one . ",4
"What more can be said about this beautifully spun mans life that has not already been said by the other reviews . Quick synopsis Jacob joins a circus after he learns that his parents have died and they have nothing to thier name even though his father was a great vet . Once in the circus he learns they are very different rules that he must abide by or pay the price something he learns very quickly after joining the circus . From here he is made vet of the circus and falls in love with the supervisor of the animal 's wife which is a huge NO NO all leading up to how to deal with this latest predictament.This is a novel told from Jacob who is 91 or 93 who has been forgotten by his family while he lives his day at an old folks home . The ending of this novel is PERFECT and I didnt realize till I put the book down that I was smiling something that is rare when I read . If you want an amazing book that is well researched in its history and well written this is definitely for you..Enjoy . ",3
"Absolutely loved the book audiobook actually . And I have more than a 6th grade education . Go figure.Not having ever been in a 1930 's circus especially since I was n't born until 1953 I ca n't say whether or not the characters were true to life . I do know and have read extensively about cruelty to animals and am not surprised this sort of thing could happen in a 1930 's circus . It was a believable story to me and loved the ending.I listened to the book on audiotape on my morning walks and I intend to buy a hard cover copy of the book because it is one I will reread again and want to keep in my library . ",4
"Neat way to get a glimpse into circus train life the depression era and life in an assisted living home . This story was so well done weaving in and out of the past and the characters were just wonderful . I ca n't think of a thing I did n't like about this book ! ",4
"This book keeps you on your toes ! Sometimes can get confusing because you do not know if the character is in a dream or living in real life . But all in all an easy book to read and one that will keep you wanting to read on ! ",4
"Carried water for elephants indeed . Do you have any idea how much water an elephant drinks ? These words of Jacob Jankowski open this wellresearched fascinating novel about circus life . This story is told by ninetysomething Jacob as he vacillates between the present and the past reflecting upon an incredible life that was not always easy but was satisfying.Jacob finds himself in a nursing home his mind still active and questioning the meaning of his existence . Reminiscing about his life he searches for meaning in the bland nursing home food and the fellow nursing home occupants most of whom have surrendered their logical minds . As he remembers his life following the death of his parents when he was in his early twenties he marvels at how every event led to the life he had.Wellresearched and accurate many incredible facts of circus life are divulged in this story . To add to this realism there are actual photographs from circus archives . This is one unforgettable book ! ",4
"I listened to this while driving to and from school and I thought it was very interesting and entertaining . I liked hearing about all the different animals and their personalities . The old mans voice for the audio version is not very pleasant at first you can hardly understand him . ",4
"There is no need to repeat the outline of the book again the editorials have already told you that . Jacob Jankowski has had a colourful and interesting life with the Benzini Circus . Jacob now ninety or ninetythree he ca n't be sure retells his adventure from a retirement home . His style and sense of humour are witty and snappy . He may be an ageing senior but there is definitely nothing wrong this man 's spunk and mental abilities.The most difficult part of the book to read was the cruelty to the animals the filth and unbearable living conditions . If you are an animal lover this will tear your heart to pieces but many of us already believe a circus in not a happy home environment for animals or people for that matter . There are also many strong points to the book i.e . Gruen 's skillful and graceful flow of words . The characters were extremely well developed and the plot left the reader feeling you were there . The book evokes a mixture of emotions sadness joy awe hope inspiration you name it the feeling will come to the surface . What more can you expect from a dynamic book . Water for Elephants is destined to become a classic . ",4
"I 've actually purchased this book for my Kindle a year and a half ago but did n't read it until this past week . I usually enjoy reading a good mystery or suspense which is why I had hesitated so long . What a mistake that was because this is one of the best books I have read in a very long time . I so enjoyed this book and felt all the emotions throughout it that I am sure the author tried to achieve . I learned a lot about the train circus from many years ago and what were some of the things that had gone on.I completely related to Jacob the main character because I remember hearing stories from my parents regarding memories of their youth but now that I am in my mid sixties I too tend to think back of what was . There is somewhat of a sadness there of what was good or bad and this is definitely what I can relate to . For me those memories that Jacob would tell us about and then bring us back into the present are profound . It is something I think we can all relate to especially when one ages.I love animals and hearing about the animals in the circus atmosphere way back then gave me both pleasure and dismay . My heart went out to Rosie the elephant.If I were to recommend one book this year to my friends and relatives to read it would definitely be Water for Elephants . ",4
"If you love the circus and love a great starcrossed love story this is the book for you . The author takes us back to the days when the circus arrived by train . She pulls no punches conveying both the magic and the horror of that world . Better than the movie and highly recommended . ",4
"I decided to finally read this book after hearing all the hoopla about the movie . And it was exactly what I assumed it was after reading several nonAmazon reviews.This book is interesting for this time period because of its subject mattera love story set in a circus in 1930 's USA . This subject is unusual for this time because circuses are rarely written about anymore . I enjoyed the author 's inclusion of some research she 'd done on the history of circuses . However I did n't feel that any of the characters was developed enough to catch and hold the reader 's interest such as is found in the I could n't put it down genre of books . Also I felt that the story being told by a 93 yr. old man in the first person was distracting in its flipping back and forth in two time periods . I could n't understand what the need was for the old man in the story unless it was for the bittersweet totally unrealistic end.This book should be advertised by Amazon as a book for young adults . It just does not have the depth and dedication to story as those of more experienced and more interesting writers . ",1
"After reading the novel I saw the movie and without reading the book first there were several scenes that I would not have understood . ",4
"Jacob is a student at Cornell University studying to become a veterinarian to join his father in his practice . When his parents are killed in a car accident Jacob returns home to learn that they had nothing left . They were in deep debt and had mortgaged everything to keep their son in school . Jacob falls apart and leaves school . He jumps on a train only to find out that it is a circus train . he is hired first doing odd jobs and finally as their veterinarian . A major catastrophe at the circus shuts the circus down . All of this action takes place in the prologue.In the first chapter we realize Jacob is in a nursing home . He is seated at dinner with a newcomer to the home . When conversation turns to the circus that will be visiting their town his table partner mentions to the ladies at the next table that he used to work for the circus carrying water . Jacob calls him a liar and is removed from the table and taken back to his room . This is the beginning of our introduction to Jacob 's memories of circus life . This was a great book . ",4
"Riding Lessons A NovelFlying Changes A NovelSara Gruen 's gift for drawing her characters as complex whole fully real persons is what makes Water for Elephants and her other books achingly wonderful to read . She so skillfully sets up the reader for the crest of each wave of the plot that one is rooting for a positive change a win for the character while at the same time feeling the reverberation of their flaws and weaknesses.The book reads very much like a memoir making it is easy to forget that it is a work of fiction . And in order to sketch such a complex setting I know she had to spend a very great amount of time researching the complexities of a circus on the road . I immediately bought and read her two other novels and found them excellent reads while seeing how she has developed her skills with each book . ",4
"This was a very interesting story within a story . A story reflecting back on the life of a man who is now in his 90 's in Assisted Living . We learn much about living a life in the Circus especially back in the 30's.it was no picnic ! ! Along with tragedy we find adventure humor and romance . I would have given the book 5 stars but for the swearing and sex content . I did n't expect that . It did n't have to be so explicit so in my opinion the 4 star rates it a very good read ! ! ",3
"An easy read and wonderfully descriptive . One seems compelled to continuing reading this story hard to put the book down once starting . ",4
"I just read Water for Elephants for no reason other than the movie trailer looked pretty good and I wanted to be able to say yes I read the book if anybody asked after I saw the movie . I could not answer in the affirmative after the Harry Potter movies or the Percy Jackson movie or the Inkheart movie.I have been tired of being the moviegoing reading teacher who did n't much go in for reading books so I have been setting myself right . I am glad I did with this one because it had me asking the same questions The Hunger Games had me asking . Maybe I 'm destined to read books witht his theme until I figure out an answer or something like an answer from these texts.The questions Why are people cruel ? and Why do people put up with cruel people shaping their lives by maiming their lives ? In other words why do n't we naturally insist on freedom and peace ? Water for Elephants author Sara Gruen has main character Jacob Jankowski a Cornelleducated veterinarian who has not yet sat his exams because his parents died in a car crash shortly before he was scheduled to take them working with a carnival during the Depression . His crosscountry train journey with the carnival takes him deep into the world of selfloathing disappointment betrayal convenient friendship and backstabbing like there 's no tomorrow . At the center of that world is the woman named Marlena who becomes the love of his life and an elephant named Rosie who understands Polish . Both these ladies suffer beyond belief at the hands of August Marlena 's husband the equestrian manager of the circus and a paranoid schizophrenic whose physical and emotional abuse of anyone and everyone is terrifying.Only reluctantly did I put the book down whenever Rosie or Marlena became August 's whipping posts . I wondered when Jacob would protect his women . It was n't enough he felt bad later for not standing up for Marlena or Rosie . When would Jacob live up to his potential and do right ? Which situation led me to wonder why some people are cruel and why so many others put up with them . No answers yet . I 'll keep reading.Gruen paints a world within a world when she draws the Depressionera carnival with her words . Its a tough place with a strict social order and very little hope for more or better . People are not diminished for holding onto what they have but for holding on at all costs . Time and time again this novel shows that this kind of holding on is not worth it . Nevertheless the hopelessness spawned by the Depression make moral compromises seem reasonable logical.Water for Elephants is Jacob 's memoir of his circus days . A nursing home inmate whose spirit refuses to be shackled to the home 's waiting for death raison d'etre he recounts his story 70 years or more after the fact beginning with his nursing home experiences to a very sympathetic audience . Life is not over for Jacob.This is a story of personal freedom that asks what price a person is willing to pay for it . The price really is nothing alongside the cost of enduring abuse ",3
"What a wonderful and delightful book ! This is a look thru the eyes of a 93year young man of his experiences with the circus mixed with today . What an experience he had in years gone by what we do to our elders now because we are too busy with our own daily lives . This has an absolutely magnificent endingsomething quite unexpected and heartwarming . I hope there is a circus in town when I get to Jacob 's age and my family is busy with their life . I think I would make a great ticket taker . ",4
"Written in the first person perspective this story explains the life of an circus worker back in the old days before any regulations were ever thought of.Rough and rugged lives wherein the guy with all the power has n't much thought or care to the value of life be it animal or human but Karma wins in the end ! Well written kept my attention enough to loose sleep so I could keep reading it.As always the book is better than the movie . Read the book first and you will most likely understand the movie better . ",4
"This book was hard to put down . This powerful story brought the pain of well developed characters to life . Sometimes I was afraid to read on knowing what I would read would be tragic but this story was told with such beauty I had to read on . The story is told as a life history of a gentleman living in a nursing home and the description of his days being cared for in the home are so real . The story of the circus performers manager and all the tragedy was gripping . I just had to keep reading then the ending was a complete shock . This was one of the best books I have read recently but I ca n't think of seeing the movie . I want to remember this story as I envisioned the settings and characters while reading . It was a great book . ",4
"This book is great start to finish . I did n't want it to end . I will miss these characters . The writer does such a wonderful job of painting such a poignant setting . Loved every second of it . ",4
"This is one of those books that is so good you do n't want to put it down . The book was way better than the movie . I would suggest anyone who enjoyed the movie to go back and read the book . ",3
"This book was so interesting ! I did n't know what to expect but I was so impressed . It was like joining a community that is nothing like my real life and seeing the good and the bad of it . I was so interested throughout the entire book and I particularly liked the photos from circuses in the past . ",4
"i loved it . could not put t down . i defy you to ead two chapters and not HAVE to finish . ",4
"I loved this novel . I am disappointed in the reviews that say the characters are too far fetched and the romance was unrealistic . Its a fictional novel that explores a vetschool drop out Jacob who joins a circus by chance and falls in love . The story he tells about life in the circus was thrilling and had me wanting to read more.When the chapters skip back to elderly Jacob we see how he has gone through a lot in his early lives . I love that he lives at an assisted living and tells his view of his life.The ending made me so happy and I could n't stop smiling . WELL worth it . I might skip the movie because I am fearful that it will not give me what the book did ! ",4
"Every emotion is conjured up in this book love humor horror disgust relief etc . I loved the historical aspect and the gritty eyeopening of that era and lifestyle . ",4
"This is such an amazing book ! Did n't really know what it was about before I started it but it turned out to be a really great book . ",4
"So beautifully written . It draws you in so quick . Beautiful story . Ca n't wait to watch the movie now . Love it ",4
"I finished this book only because I felt like I had to . I suppose it was well researched and written because I felt the same way about reading it that I feel going to a county fair or local carnival a little grimy a little ashamed a little grossed out . It 's not a glamorous life and it was n't a good time economically speaking . The writer definitely gets that across . The content was just a little disturbing to me . But for those who like a dark and somewhat gritty story this is probably really enjoyable . Just not for me . ",2
"To me the mark of a good book is when you do n't want to see it end . And when it does end you ca n't stop thinking about it . That 's how this book was to me . The characters were so richly drawn that I actually felt like they could be real people . When some of the injustices happened I had to remind myself that this was fiction . Sara Gruen writes this amazing story against a backdrop of the Great Depression and that adds so much to the story . I ca n't say too much about it without giving away important plot points but I did not see the big twist coming . I 'm surprised I did n't as all the signs were there but I was just so engrossed in the story that I did n't put them together . This is a book I will read again and again . ",4
"It was a wonderful story . I ca n't wait to see the movie to compare . You really start feeling for the main characters ",3
"I am in love with this book . I could not put it down . I love that the author switches back and forth between the young Jacob and the older Jacob . At the beginning the two versions of Jacob seem so drastically different in how they view life but once you near the end you really understand the character and what his life was like . I truly enjoyed this not so typical love story . ",4
"Okay I 'm going to be brutally honest I did n't want to read this novel because Robert Pattinson plays the lead male in the film adaptation . There I 've said it . That horrible bit of judgement being said Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen was a great novel that I would have been sorry to miss had I not given it this chance.93 year old Jacob Jankowski is living in a nursing home when the circus comes to town . With the circus ' arrival Jacob begins telling a series of memories from his own life as a circus veterinarian.The story swiftly becomes a love story between Jacob and Marlena who works with the horses and elephant . Marlena is married to the head trainer August who is abusive and brash . Jacob refuses to allow August to treat the animals or Marlena with such little respect ! A sweet love story with great characters . I generally do n't enjoy novels involving infidelity and since Marlena was married when she and Jacob fell in love I was torn between being happy for them and being furious that she would n't leave her husband before allowing her love for Jacob to blossom . Everything happens the way it is supposed to and I found myself reading through this novel fast I did n't know what the outcome would be . Definitely worth checking out ! Sarah ",3
"Water for Elephants is first of all a love storya love story of humans and of animals . It is also a story of aging and mental illness of people taking care of one another and of people out simply for themselves.The setting is a small struggling traveling circus during the Great Depression . All of the ills of the times are reflected in the microcosm of Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth the lack of jobs companies that do n't pay their workers the terror of the weak the handtomouth existence that goes on day after day . The circus which is the escapism dream of many people is in reality a harsher existence than the world outside . The author delivers scene after scene to define the often cruel life of the circus . And within this small world she has created wonderful characters that deal with the problems in their lives in their own heroic or cruel ways.Water for Elephants takes your emotions on a roller coaster ride . There are moments of beauty and moments of real tragedy . The ending is somewhat a surprise but a testament to the circus credo the show must go on . ",4
"This was a frustrating truly awful book . While it started off interesting a boy 's parents dies and leave him nothing and he gets caught up with a circus it quickly became transparent and painful . He falls in love with a girl he hardly speaks to who is married . He reacts when he should hold back and holds back when he should act . And there are far too many random explicit and unnecessary sex scenes . Perhaps if the author spent less time on graphic sex and more time on character development this book would have been more tolerable . And the ending which I was hoping would earn the book some redemption was terribly disappointing and infuriating.My faith in the NY Times bestseller list has been ruined . ",0
"Jacob Jankowski is an elderly man living in an assisted living home who recounts his youth spent on a circus train . After his parents death Jacob uits college and finds work as a vet aboard a traveling circus with the violet Uncle Al who owns the circus and the sadistic August who is the head animal trainer . All seems to be going well until Jacob falls in love with Marlena August 's wife who has a special relationship with horses and is the circus 's star performer . Numerous secrets are uncovered Uncle Al has a penchant for tossing unnecessary workers off the train at night and August seems to have severe anger issues . He knows he is not safe on the train but his love for Marlena forces him to stay.The interesting thing about this book is the elephant Rosie who Jacob loves dearly but ca n't seem to understand simple commands until Jacob discovers the language barrier . She is a metaphor for all things innocent and pure even going to enormous lengths to protect Marlena during the book 's climax . I loved August in this book . Yes he is cruel and terrifying but he is a wonderfully complex character . HIs dualism is brilliant in its confusion . However Marlena seemed a bit stupid in her naivete . She never truly seemed to grasp the extent of Uncle Al 's and August 's cruelty . Overall the book was an entertaining read but parts of rather were rather difficult to believe and the conclusion was unfortunately corny . I 'm a sucker for bad endings and this ending wrapped things up just a little bit too nicely . ",2
"Why am I seeing so many reviews that say this book was a disappointment ? ! I finished this book in one week . I looked forward to picking it up and finding out what happened next . I told my family and friends about it . Read this book and you wo n't be disappointed . ",4
"I bought this book out of curiousity and the big hoopla over what a sleeper hit this story had becomeI love animalsso I gave it a try.One of the other Amazon customer reviewers said that the main character was talking to a reporter . No he 's not talking to anyone just us but I was bothered HOW he was communicating to us.Since everyone else has synopsized the plot ad nauseum . I 'll just report the weaknesses in this book.First of all very little elephant ! ! ! Not Water For Elephants but Water for ELEPHANT ONE elephant . And very little elephant . Whatever research she did on these animals was tiny miniscule . I could have gotten more into the mind of pachyderms by watching a Nat.Geo or Animal Planet special.As for his being a veterninarian . I too own horses been around them and vets for nearly 5 decades . What little circus animal veterinary work Ms. Gruen describes in the book she probably got watching a cable TV station animal special.I also concur with the veterinarian reviewer on the slaughter of the horses . If a horse is forced to watch the other beside it die violently most likely when it smells all that blood you can bet the ranch it would break its ' halter or rope and be nine miles gone.I also found it very distracting the numerous referrals to minute body languages while the characters talked . Also even though the story started pretty promising once Jacob got established as an employee in the circus it bottomed out into nothing but petty bickerings and jealousies among all the circus employees . Yawn.It was fast reading but I started hoping the thing would end soon . And yeah the animal stampede at the end I was n't buying . I think Ms. Gruen could have just watched Nat . Geo or Animal Planet replays of elephants gone bonkers on video in circuses and let Rosie the elephant just get even by squishing those who had abused her . ",2
"I was a bit skeptical about this book before I actually sat down and started reading it . Immediately I was drawn to the story and I could n't put it down . Marvelous tale of love hate betrayal and triumph during the great depression . An excellent look into circus life and the story wrapped up beautifully . Highly recommended ! ",4
"This book was in my recommendation queue for weeks and I continuously passed it over for other books . I guess I was not totally wild to read about a circus during the great depression but I finally caved in . I am so glad that I decided to read this book ! I would n't go as far to say that it 's the best book ever but I enjoyed reading it immensely . The story was so unique from any other story that I have read it was utterly captivating.This is obviously a story about a circus in the midst of the depression . Really this book has multiple stories running at the same time and each one is fabulously crafted . From Jacob 's story a young man finding himself the amazing animals and the absolute and total love and loyalty animals especially Rosie the elephant WARNING there are sections in this book that were very difficult for me to read and will be for any animal lover . I have a VERY difficult time reading about animal cruelty and Gruen spared little in her descriptions of how some of these animals were treated the crazy Uncle Al the even crazier August and the enchanting Marlena a young woman finding independence all written to perfection.I was worried about how the ending would come to be as I was so involved with each character . I was afraid that Gruen would just stop but she tied up everything so neatly and painlessly . It was so beautifully done from start to finish . I strongly recommend reading this book . ",4
"This one took me a while to get used to since the circus does n't appeal to me naturally . I enjoyed the chapters narrated by the 90 or 93 year old he made me laugh every 5 minutes . As the plot thickened during the cirucs era my interest peeked and I can honestly say I enjoyed the rest of the book and may be open to reading another book about the circus . ",3
"I liked this book a lot . And there were parts where I could n't wait to find out what happened . The book went back and forth between the 1930 's and present time . And I could n't wait sometimes to see what the next part was.Then I went to a book club and the people fawned over the book especially the incredible research the way the employees and animals were treated and the shocking ending . Well that made me like the book less . I do n't care how wonderful the research is if it 's not written well . And a lot of the things that the author wanted you to feel sympathy for I just did n't . I 'm sorry that Camel got Jamaica giner paralysis but he was a horrible alcoholic and addict who would drink anything to get a buzz . Something was bound to happen . And the way the employees and animals were treated was that really a shock to anyone ? Did people not know that ? Animals were always abused and it was the depression not paying someone and throwing them off a train is not unexpected . And the shocking ending . Gee whiz a 4 year old could see that coming . SPOILER NEXT From the moment the author mentioned that the circus was in town and that Jacob 's people always came on Sundays I knew they woulnd't show up . SPOILER ENDS.So I liked the book I liked the story . I did n't like people all ga ga over facts that should be common sense . This book should be read as a work of fiction as it is and just enjoy it for that . ",2
"A wonderful romp back in time to the golden age of the Circus ! The narration is nonlinear and chock full of twists and surprises of a circus life not for the weak ! The transitions back and forth in time enhanced the story by letting the whole picture emerge at a slower pace.As the story opens Jacob is trapped in aging body though his mind at times a bit confused is mostly quite perceptive and quick witted . The frustration with this battle between body and mind is poignantly revealed as we watch him testing the limits of his mobility and selfperseverance . Most of the time his ` cantankerous ' behavior is met with unsympathetic results.It 's easy to understand how eating a steady diet of tediously bland and mushy foods when one has the teeth to chew on a cob of corn or a piece of meat could make one somewhat cranky ! Had he been in his own home or cared for by relatives the result probably would have been different.he 'd have gotten a ` real ' dinner instead of visit by the Home 's Psychiatrist with a diagnosis of geriatric depression followed by an unwanted dosing of Elavil.By alternating back in forth in time I was able to be more empathetic with the 90 or 93 year old Jacob . Seeing his youthful tragedies and how this angst over the sudden loss of his parents forces his life in a totally new and unexpected course is pivotal.He flees to survive . and survive he does . in a very gritty and cutthroat environment.There is no safety net under this circus act and it 's every man for himself . Given the time depressionera and situation the harshness of this existence becomes quite credible.I think that this tough past in part helps the reader to understand why he 's not very comfortable being coddled and restricted within the sanitary and ordered life of the Nursing Facility.He is left unchallenged and bored without much support from his dutiful albeit rather distant children and grandchildren . He misses the unpredictability and excitement of his former Circus Life and of course the love of his life Marlena.The different voices helped to move the story along and not keep the reader too long in any one place while allowing the story to unfold with some genuine surprises.Highly recommended ! ",4
"This book was very entertaining wish it was longer though . I thought it was wellwritten no complaints at all from me . I would love to read more from this author . ",4
"Water For Elephants grabbed me from the beginning and kept me captivated through its entirety . I had a difficult time putting it down . It was wellwritten entertaining and made me laugh and cry . I highly recommend it . ",4
"I think that it was very slow to start and had a lot of places that the story line crept to the point that I wanted to put the book down . The last 13 of the book was excellent . I would have liked to seen the first two thirds of the book to have been faster moving . ",2
"This is one of those fine books that you never want to end . I ca n't complain about how it ended however . I just was n't ready to leave the characters and story behind . I recommend this book to anyone who loves reading . Let 's hope Ms Gruen writes another one like this . ",4
"The story generated lots of good discussion . The juxtiposition of the main character in youth and old age benefited both story lines neither of which would have been as compelling without the other . ",4
"WOW . Put this book on your MUST READ list . I bought this book because I was told my fatherinlaw who recently passed away had run away as a 13 yo child to join the circus in Europe . He would have loved this book he was exactly like the old cantankerous Joseph and probably the young one too . Sara did you know him ? From the moment I started it I read straight through until I was done . I can not remember the last time I did that . It was just an awesome description of circus life AND the life of an old man . It was two intertwined stories that made for a fabulous book . Enjoy . ",4
"While it kept my attention for the most part I was over all disappointed.While heavy on circus life dismal on veterinary facts . Portrays a man whom is thinking with his penis and not his brain a insult to men in general.For a title of Water for Elephants do n't expect him to be sympathetic to them.He is more concerned about his love life then the cruelty to the animals under his care . ",1
"I could n't read this book all the way through . Using GD all the time and the main character lusting after a married women . YUCK ! ",0
"I love animal stories but I always read them bracing for the sad ending . This book was a mixed bag.In the first part of the book terrible things happened to both people and animals.In the latter part of the book the angels practically came down to sing . Everything good that could happen did ! I 'm not opposed to that . It just seemed a bit much . Too simplisic . Even the ultimate solution for old Jacob was just strangely perfect and therefore hard to believe.A logical question that bugged me about the plot was why did Uncle Al not get rid of the schizophrenic August ? And how in the world did August get to be in charge of the animals in the first place ? He was n't good with them . Jacob or the other Polish worker would have been much more effective training Rosie . If Uncle Al had ditched August the inflammatory situation between him Marlena and Jacob would have been defused.When Jacob was scooping up Rosie and the liberty horses I was silently pleading 'Do n't forget BoBo . ' And he did n't . Like I said just too good to be true . ",3
"Growing old is not fun but this dear character had an exciting life as you go back with him . Warm and emotional funny and exciting . You really need to read this one . ",3
"'Water For Elephants ' is one of those books that is so good it 's hard to write down how deep your feelings for it are . Jacob Jankowski is now ninety three years old and in an assisted living facility when the circus comes to town . This brings back startling memories of his early life when his world fell apart and he found himself on a circus train heading into his future.On the brink of passing his final exams for veterinary school Jacob is informed that his parents have just died in an automobile accident . Adding insult to injury their house and practice were mortgaged to pay for his school and there 's nothing left for Jacob . He walks out of his final exam and keeps walking until finding himself beside a railroad track . Jumping the next train he later realizes it 's a circus train . An old man named Camel helps him out and gets him hired on with the show as the veterinarian.Jacob winds out bunking with a recalcitrant dwarf named Kinko and working for a man named August who 's married to Marlena a horse performer and a beautiful woman . Marlena is offlimits but Jacob ca n't help but admire her from afar.A twist of fate bring Rosie to the scene an elephant abandoned by another defunct circus . It seems Rosie is useless as a performer and left under August 's brutal treatments until Jacob discovers that Rosie responds to the Polish language rather than English . Once the language barrier is broken Rosie becomes a star . I could keep prattling on but I do n't want to ruin the book . 'Water For Elephants ' is a beautifully written tale . Switching back and forth between Jacob 's current situation in his nursing home and his memories of the past there 's never a slow moment in Gruen 's perfect prose . The story is rich and well researched the characters practically sparkle with life and I could smell the animals and feel the train lurching beneath my feet.This is one of the best books I 've read in a long time . I suppose it helps that I love circus books and freak show books but 'Water For Elephants ' is more a book on humanity and what sometimes lurks beneath the smiles and happy faces of troubled minds . It 's about greed and cliques its about the depression era job desperation its about abuse and most of all its about the human heart . Do n't miss out on this 10 star tale . Enjoy ! ",4
"An interesting look at the life of members of a Depressionera traveling circus . The story revolves around Jacob a Cornell trained veterinary student who drops out suddenly before his final exams after the loss of his parents and joins a circus traveling by train across the country . The story is split into two perspectives the story of 90 something year Jacob now suffering from dementia and struggling with the loss of his dignity in an assisted living facility recounting his youth as the circus veterinarian in flashbacks . Overall I enjoyed the book . It is obvious that Sara Gruen put a great deal of research into circus life which I found fascinating . I had an extremely difficult time reading about the animal abuse although perhaps this was necessary within the plot to enhance the reader 's hatred for August and Uncle Al as if the redlighting was not enough ! . My biggest criticism I did not like the ending at all . Without being a spoiler I will just say that it was completely unbelievable . But overall a good and quick read . Rosie the elephant was without a doubt my favorite character . ",2
"Gruen has all the elements for a terrific novel the circus the Depression a love triangle a bitter old widower reflecting on his life but ultimately this is nothing more than a mediocre summer distraction for those of us who really do n't like to read.I would n't write a review if not for the fact I was so let down by its strong premise . Other than the fact this quickly becomes a cheesy romance after promising so much more I could n't get passed thinking that one of the main characters August was trying to be Nathan from Sophie 's Choice.Another problem was Jacob the novel 's main character and narrator . The problem I have is that despite the name Jacob and despite the fact he 's in love with a beautiful woman and despite the fact that I do n't know he urinates standing up the main character really is a woman who the writer calls a man . This is a problem I have with a lot of male writers when they write women Wally Lamb is a rare exception . Jacob 's behavior thoughts actions words everything are those of a female character . So when Jacob and Marlena finally get together wellIf you 're sitting by the pool or at the beach and there 's nothing else to do or read go ahead and read this one . It 's not a terrible novel just a disappointing one . ",4
"This book was part of my wife 's book club . The club loved it . So I finally picked it up and started reading it . As a quick note subject matter for a book does not matter to me . I care about good stories with great characters and this book has it from covertocover.Logically I ca n't think why I would want to read a story set in the 1930s about the circus but there I was reading it night after night . It 's a fascinating story with superb description that is slipperyeasy to read.I do n't know what your hesitation isread this book . There are tens of thousands of worse ones out there . ",4
"Historical Fiction at its finest . Do n't miss this one . A well developed story with wonderful characters . ",4
"I 'm not an advocate of circuses what with the animal neglect so for Rosie to get the last laugh made me happy . The characters really jump off the page and you can really see what a hard life it must have been on the tracks . ",4
"We listened to this on a road trip out west and I loved it ! The story itself was a great leave from my everyday but the voices were fantastic ! I loved hearing cantankerous 90 or 93.. year old Jakob tell his tale . If you enjoyed reading this book I 'm sure you will love it more hearing the tale from the two Jakobs . If you have n't read the book there is a good chance you will be drawn in by the storytellers and end up loving it . We sat in the car after we arrived home for the last 10 minutes of the book we were so enthralled.Get this and listen to it ! ",4
"Excellent book . Have recommended to so many people . Could n't put it down ! ! Stayed up way too many late nights wanting to read more . ",4
"and man I wish I had read it when people first recommended it ! This is the most compassionate thrilling historically detailed fiction ride I have ever been on . You MUST read this book I was covered with goosebumps MANY times while reading it and especially at the end . ",4
"This book was a pleasure . It is meaningful enough to warrant the time to read it and yet it is still fun and engrossing enough for a good poolside read while on vacation . The protagonist 's world is shredded near the beginning and he does what readers of this review would dream of but never do . He hops a circus train and enters that most bizarre of American sub cultures of the depression era 1930 's . Read this and live vicariously in the circus from the comfort of your hotel 's patio furniture . You 'll be glad you did and you 'll feel more literate than if you read most of the trash you see at other chairs around the pool . ",3
"Gruen has woven meticulously detailed fascinating fact into wellcrafted fiction this is a very enjoyable book ! I never cared one whit for circuses before reading it but now I think I have to go to a circus museum ",4
"This book is okay if you like fighting bickering jealousy adultry and just plain nasty acting people . The circus did not play that big of a role in this book . The book concenstrates more on Jacob 's personal life and his lust for the bosses wife . Jacob now an old man begins the book by going back into his youth to the time he was attending vet school . Tragic events turn his life upside down and he decides to run literally . He winds up with a circus and becomes the circus vet although he rarely spent any time with or working on the animals . He just stood and watched animals be slaughtered and then felt bad that he did not do anything . I did not like Jacob . I thought he was a spinless whimp and coward . His only concern was the bosses wife and how he could get her . I must say however the ending was terrific ! That probably was the highlight of the book . I do not see what all the excitement was about . If you want to read a life changing book read The Shack . Water for Elephants in my opinion is mostly garbage . ",1
"This is one of the best books I 've read this year . A very engaging story . You wo n't want to put it down . It is a very quick but highly enjoyable read . ",4
"I loved this book . It was breathtaking alive as if I could smell it taste it and feel it . It was like I became lost in the Great Depression era . I so wanted it to end so that I could hear the conclusion of Jacob 's life with the circus but I did n't want it to end because it was such an enjoyable book . I liked the way the story was narrated by Jacob as a young man and as an old man . It is hard to believe that this was not an autobiography . ",4
"I loved this book ! It was refreshingwell written a real page turner . I would recommend this book for anyone over 15 who 's looking for a good read . ",4
"I read to learn and to be entertained . Some books are more one than the other . It does n't matter as long as I 'm fulfilled in some way . I came to this book after I could n't get past page 90 of one of the most boring books I have ever attempted to read by a contemporary highly regarded female author whose last name starts with P. Maybe anything would have been interesting after that . I found this book to be very entertaining and I even learned something . I have never been to a circus or much cared about going to one . Still I was intrigued by the setting the characters and the story.Reading bestsellers can be a cap shoot . I ca n't imagine what made The Lovely Bones or The Memory Keeper 's Daughter bestsellers or why they were even published . But books like this one and The Kite Runner deserve their bestselling positions . Then there are other books like The Memory of Running that deserve more attention than they get . I guess what you like depends on your perspective . I ran into a woman the other day who enjoyed The Lovely Bones but she said it 's because her daughter died recently and she liked to think her daughter was in a heaven like that one . ",4
"OK so I 'm not an intellect.but I found this book to be absolutely wonderful . I listened to it on CD as I travelled to and from work . It was well written and absolutely held my interest from beginning to end . If you want John Steinbeck then read John Steinbeck as suggested from readers who do n't share my enthusiasm . In the meantime enjoy this wonderful story and cry and laugh as I did . ",4
"With its spotlight on elephants Gruen 's romantic pageturner hinges on the humananimal bonds that drove her debut and its sequel Riding Lessons and Flying Changesbut without the mass appeal that horses hold . The novel told in flashback by nonagenarian Jacob Jankowski recounts the wild and wonderful period he spent with the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth a traveling circus he joined during the Great Depression . When 23yearold Jankowski learns that his parents have been killed in a car crash leaving him penniless he drops out of Cornell veterinary school and parlays his expertise with animals into a job with the circus where he cares for a menagerie of exotic creatures He also falls in love with Marlena one of the show 's star performersa romance complicated by Marlena 's husband the unbalanced sadistic circus boss who beats both his wife and the animals Jankowski cares for . Despite her often clich & eacuted prose and the predictability of the story 's ending Gruen skillfully humanizes the midgets drunks rubes and freaks who populate her book . ",2
"This book was amazing . It was very different from the books that I 've been reading lately thrillers science fiction and I would recommend it to anyone . You got to know the characters even the animals and ended up feeling as if you were hearing a story about somebody you knew . She did such a good job and I hope that her others are just as good ! ",4
"Being a born horselover I have read Sara 's previous books about horses . I loved them . When I heard she had written another bookI just had to read that too . Her writing style is very readable . You become immersed in the characters . Water For Elephants is a book for all generations . I had both my daughters read it . We all fell in love with the main character Jacob . I ca n't say enough good things about this wonderful heartwarming book . Highly recommend ! ",4
"I do not like the circus . Although it did seem like an interesting book I passed on it the first few times it came up on a search . Finally I gave in . I am so glad that I did . This is an excellent book . I still will not go out of my way to get to a circus but I do think of this book every time I see an elephant . Thank you for a great read . ",3
"I read this book in one nightcould n't put it down . There was so much to enjoy the details of the circus the story of Jacob the suspense of the plot . It all drew me in and I was riveted until the end . My copy was a digital download from my library but the download was from Amazon . It included pictures from historical archives that really added a nice element of historical verisimilitude to the reading.There are several reviews on here with summaries of the book so I wo n't add another I will just say if you 're looking for a historically based novel that is well written and original then this one is for you . Enjoy ! ",4
"Loved this book ! I 'm hoping to encourage my book club members to read it too so we can discuss together . One of those stories that keep you engaged and encouraged to keep reading to see what happens next . I enjoy a book that makes you feel for the characters and this book does just that . Plus there were enough twists and turns that I did n't exactly know how it would end . Great read and would recommend to other readers ! ",4
"I am glad I read the book . I still havent seen the movie but the book was a good read . ",4
"What a haunting cast of characters true voices detailed descriptions that went on just long enough plot twist at the end I devoured this book in just 24 hours . I keep thinking about Jacob and Marlena and August and even Rosie . How wonderful that the author did so much research into the history it really came alive for me . I ca n't wait for the movie ! One of the best pieces of fiction I have read in some time . ",4
"What an amazing adventure this book takes you on ! I was one of the few that did not read it during the time when it seemed like everyone you knew was reading it sometimes I stupidly buck what is making the rounds and have to come back to it of my own accord . I am so glad I did with this one . I originally did n't know if I could get into a story about circus performers during the depression era but Sara Gruen does an amazing job of bringing the train circus and the characters to life so even if you do n't wan na you care ! Jacob Jankowski is left to live out his years in a home and like so many elderly today is left thinking no one really cares and there 's nothing really to get up for anymore . People mistakenly think that just because you get older you no longer need to live but you do even at 90something years old . Getting off of that horse before it bucks I loved Jacob . He 's fiesty and perpetually in a sarcastic bad mood . He made me laugh cry and scream with frustration toward those who were making him feel like less than a human . As Jacob tells the story of his early 20s the untimely death of his parents his ivy league veterinary education put on hold a random desparate act of hopping a circus train coming to terms with his own self & sexuality learning to fight for what is right all during the height of the depression and prohibition you become enthralled . I loved the characters he encountered the awkwardness of his younger self as he figured out life love and passion and of course the animals he cared for . Rosie the intelligent beautiful elephant well you fall in love with her right along with Jacob . This was one of those occasions where you love the book so much as you 're reading that the closer you get to the conclusion you get really scared that the author is going to drop the ball . Even though I experienced that fright the ending Gruen gave for Jacob and co was absolutely perfect . hugsComplaints ? I think the character of Marlena could 've been developed a bit more . You cared about her but only through the glimpses Jacob gave of her . Other than that I do n't really have much to complain about . Yes I 'm reachingWater For Elephants is just one of those rare books you want to snuggle with and talk sweet nothings to you want to beg it to come back and stay stay forever ! Sara Gruen brought to life an amazing world it seems rare to love a book this much these days but she made me a believer and she 's got a new fan for life.Now let 's just hope the movie version comes anywhere close to how great the book is ! ",4
"I found myself reading so many parts of this story to my husband they were so funny ! This is definately a great book to read . A great story and a fast read I loved it ! heard it was nothing like the movie though ",4
"WOAH I 'm not sure why this book is so highly rated but I could n't even continue reading it . Very draging and boring to me . Made it to chapter four and had to stop . ",0
"I felt that this book was a good readkept me wanting to read more the entire bookca n't wait to see the movie although the movie probably wo n't be as good ",4
"I loved this book it was hard to put down once I got used to the changing of times . ill probably read it again later . ",4
"Great read . Even if I like a book it usually takes me a month to get through because I always end up falling asleep when I start to read but I finished this book in 5 days tops ! Sara Gruen 's research and imagination paid off . I was impressed by how vividly I was able to see and feel all her characters . I have never been interested in the circus before but this book wants me wants to read more . ",4
"Very easy to read and very enjoyable . I could see the characters in my mind .Thanks Amazon Prime . Like the Arthur . ",4
"This was a fabulous book . It kept me spellbound and I simply could not put it down . I would highly recommend this one ",4
"This story was interesting in the fact that it was told as a memory of the main character . Provided a look into life with a circus . I have not seen the movie and not sure if I will . Would n't want to movie to ruin the book by not following the story line . ",3
"Being an animal lover I truly enjoyed this book . I could understand their feelings working with animals as I raised trained horses for close to twenty years . ",4
"I enjoyed the format of the story switching from past to present . I would recommend it to readers who enjoy history with their fiction . ",4
"Perfect finale . Loved every chapter . Ca n't wait to see the movie ! This book terrified me . I loved it but it really scared the beep out of me . Starting off with total devastation Jacob sets off into the great unknown following the rails . Hungry and desperate he jumps a train and discovers it 's the circus train . I know it 's a love story and a mystery and a tale of brutality in a dangerous time in our history for men women and animals ! I love getting Twitter messages from Rosie like my husband said you know things are going to be OK when an elephant just tweeted you ",4
"I did n't like this bookI found it depressing and the whole thing just one big sad story . One thing it changed was I will not be going to any circus anytime soon . ",1
"I really did n't ever plan on reading this I saw it several times in walmart and never really put a thought to it but then I ended up getting it anyway one day when I went to my school library.It was actually very good save for the fact that halfway through the book i felt like a part was missing.The book basically tells the story of young man Jacob who joins the circus after his parents die . Since he 's college educated in vetranairy science save for the fact he never took the final exams he becomes the circus animal doctor . Soon he falls in love with the hot headed circus director 's wife and finds himself at odds with a uncontrollable but loveable elephant.The book is interesting funny and smart but it definately was n't perfect . First it seems like a part was missing practically . At the beginning of the book the dwarf that Jacob rooms with Walter basically hates Jacob 's guts . Plus he meets the girl of his dreams except that they do n't really spend that much time together . Then before I knew it Walter and Jacob are best friends and no reason to be and Jacob and his girl i forget her name it 's been a few weeks since I read it are in love but do n't want to admit it because of her husband August.If you can get past these few things the book is pretty good overall . Quite enjoyable . ",3
"Learn a lot about the circus life . Book holds your attention . Interesting story being told through the eyes of a 90+ year old ",3
"Beautifully written ! This is a moving glimpse into smalltown American life and how the circus played an important role in America 's coming of age . ",4
"I had heard a lot about this book and was excited to read it . It may have suffered from too much anticipation but I was n't enthralled . I thought it was okay . I found it patched together and in need of a little relief . From old age home to parent 's dying to hardships of circus life I just felt weighed down . ",2
"I did n't realize this was such a controversial book until I came to write my review . I liked the book . It is fast paced and an easy read . I did not like the explicit sexual scenes I do n't think they added anything other than showing Jacob was nave which we knew anyway . I didn & # 8217t like the animal abuse and the fact that he was a vet and didn & # 8217t do anything about it but if he would have he probably would have been redlighted . The author did a lot of research about the circus in that era and it was interesting to read about some of the things that really did happen . ",3
"This is not usually the type of book that I read but after hearing a lot about it I decided to give it a whirl . I was not disappointed ! ",4
"I read this book based embarrassingly on the attraction of the trailer . however upon reading the book I have to say that it outperformed my wildest expectations . I loved the characters their imperfection and their depth . Gruen 's Narrative is vivid exciting passionate and at times heartbreaking . the personalities of the animals and their role in the main characters interaction and livelihood in and out of the circus are really moving . I also found it refreshing that the main character 's reasons for join the circus are not the norm . I did find the leading lady a bit flat at times and the summation at the end left a little to be desired but the ending was still perfect . ",4
"The story held my interest since I had an uncle who was the front man for the circus . The story line took the reader through this man 's early life and into old age with ease . The characters come to life and before the book is finished one can smell the popcorn and the big top . ",3
"could n't put it down . my husband would yell at me bc i was keeping him up at night ! Easy read ! ! ",4
"The first half of the book has interesting details about life with a circus train along with some suspense then the suspense increases . Alternating between the old and young main character was great . I love the way this was written . ",4
"This is such a beautiful story . I enjoyed the story line and the characters and I felt that it was well researched also . ",4
"This book is keeps you turning the pages after page . I did have some trouble getting through the abuse of animals as I am a lover of all animals . ",4
"I could not put this book down ! Well done Sara ! Sheri Lyn SchwarAuthor of Vasculitis Sick and Tired of Being Sick and Tired ",4
"It was a pretty good book but I had no idea there would be so much foul language and sexual material in it . I was pretty disappointed in that . ",2
"This book is one of my alltime favorites because I loved the main character and the woman he fell in love with but most of all I loved the adventure of the traveling circus . Gruen had to have done a major league amount of research to learn what the circus was like in the 1920s . And my guess would be that she really did meet a man like the main character . Otherwise how could he be so believable and so lovable ? I have lent this book to several people . I know the author prefers to hear that everyone bought their own copy and I get it . But Water for Elephants is a book everyone should read . ",4
"It was a very exciting story . I loved the way it went back and forth from now to yesteryear . The characters seemed to real . Loved it . ",4
"When I first read the title and the back of this book I was n't the least bit interested . However two of my sisters my daughter and my niece were reading the book at the same time and all four of them loved it and recommended it highly . I had to get it and I had to agree with them ! Its a great story ! One that is amost impossible to put down ! I highly recommend this read ! I just hope the movie does n't ruin it . ",4
"Water for Elephants A NovelThis was a wonderful book . Written from the prospective of an old man as he dreams of his life in the circus it is a good insight into those of us who get older live with our memories and our loved ones have no idea of our past lives . I really loved the ending . Very fitting ! Newfmom ",4
"Liked this book a lot even after watching the movie found more entertainment in the book . The book is more for mature eyes as was the movie . ",4
"In Water for Elephants the reader is treated to views of very different worlds . One is the present day reallife existance of elderly residents in an assisted living facility . Their story is told through the eyes of a 90something year old man recuperating from a broken hip . At the same time this character Jacob we learn is his name regales us with life as a member of a circus from the past . Both stories are filled with such strong detail that we as the reader are drawn back and forth from the past to the present in gentle surprise . We are introduced to the emotional rollercoaster details of a young man 's life many of which he is not a willing participant . However we learn that he has a depth of character and courage that carries him through life 's troubles when many of us today would want to give up . We find him using those same character traits to overcome some curveball throws that at 93 life is still pitching his way . Ms. Gruen has done a superb job of blending the past and present and even gives us a hint of the future of this gallant man 's life . Her book is so well researched that the reader might begin to feel it is a biography rather than fiction . This book will hold your interest throughout especially the tales of the circus from a bygone era and even the unfortunate activities of life in eldercare facilities that haunt us today . However she does not leave us feeling sad and remiss about a touchy subject but instead gives us a surprise ending that is upbeat and hopeful.By Sherry M. Airey ",4
"the story was amazing and I found myself completely identifying with an octagenarian who ran away with the circus ! A little unexpected for this 40 something mom . Read this . You will be transported . ",4
"Loved this book ! The author really engaged my interest in the characters . Such a great story and hurrah for the ending ! ! ",4
"I enjoyed this book but did not find it to be the home run I expected or was led to believe it would be . The most moving authentic passages were delivered by 93yearold Jacob Jankowski . You just got ta love this elderly gent . The chapters in his voice gave me a new understanding of what it means to be old and alone the fact that Gruen could craft such a believable male character to my way of thinking anyhow redeems many of this book 's other flaws.I read numerous positive and negative reviews on amazon and I agree with several other reviewers that Jacob can sometimes be a bit frustrating in that he fails to take appropriate action when it seems most called for and at other times gets all upinarms and confrontational over far lesser infractions . But to me this makes him a human and believable character . Have n't we all lamed out when we should have taken action or overreacted when we should n't have ? What I hate even more is when a character is always ready willing and able to jump through impossible hoops to save the day . If I only wanted that in my literary characters I 'd stick to James Bond novels . I do however agree with many other reviewers who pointed out that some dialogue is a bit too pat and unbelievable for both the era and the circumstances in which this story is supposed to have taken place.But what I simply do not get is why so many readers are up in arms about the socalled graphic sex scenes . They were neither numerous nor particularly offensive but I guess sensibilities are wideranging where sex is concerned . I suppose the sideshow scene with Barbara and her magnificent boobs could be characterized as somewhat sexist but so what ? It was provocative and engaging . And while that scene and Jacob 's initiation could be labeled both gratuitous and graphic I would argue that any graphic sex scene is gratuitous . Writers always have the option of panning to the flickering candle rather than telling us what the heck is happening . I give an author points for taking the risk of telling me . Besides which I 'd consider the absence of raunchy performances and sexual hankypanky in a book about a traveling circus to be an inauthentic gaping omission . So while I could have taken or left these two particular scenes I believe they were well written and have their place in this story.All of that said my biggest complaints about this book are Marlena 's shallowness and the mounting melodrama as the story nears its preposterous ending . Though Marlena is perhaps the second most important character in this novel I found her to be vapid insipid and uninspiring . I thought Rosemary the assistedliving home nurse was far more endearing and believable for as minor a character as she was . True the villains Uncle Al August were likewise a bit canned but I can forgive a lack of character development for certain secondary characters because after all an author has but so many pages in which to tell her story . But Marlena as the circus 's star performer and Jacob 's love interest should have been better developed . And I suppose I simply must accept the ending for what it issomething of an outrageous letdown.Despite these shortcomings I enjoyed Water for Elephants . It drew me in enough to hold my interest and it certainly has its strong points . For example I thought the author did a fabulous job bringing the animal characters to life as sentient unique beings . I loved the aged Jacob and liked his young counterpart only slightly less . I will admit I expect more from and am therefore harder on traditionallypublished books than selfpublished ones so I gave Water for Elephants three stars rather than four . If a writer is lucky enough to get published then I hold him or her to a higher standard than schlubs like myself who try to put a good thoughtprovoking product before the public without the benefit of editors professional cover designers or national distribution networks . More power to Sara Gruen for being among the fortunate few to land a publishing deal . ",2
"You will NOT be disappointed in this book a real pageturner that you can not put down ! The characters and story are wonderful I can not wait for the movie . ",4
"It 's clear why this unusual work wound up on the NY Times Bestseller List because it will appeal to a mass audience . It captures a time and environment that stirs the curiosity of young and old . Who would n't be interested in exploring the dysfunctional dynamics of the circus family during the perilous era of the early 30 's . It allows you to finally be able to run away to the circus in the comfort and safety of your easy chair . And as intriguing as some scenes might be it makes you just as glad you never did.While written simplistically the messages run deep . The cruelty that existed during those hard times and the effect on man and beast were heartbreaking . It was particularly difficult to envision the animal abuse and neglect but it was so integral to the story that you had no choice . It was a reminder that left unchecked and unsupervised that the weakest amongst us will frequently be delegated the scapegoats . It was also a reminder of the evil that can be unleashed by man when faced with desperate times.Visiting the Senior Jankowski was particularly delightful . A mere 90 or maybe 93 as he frequently chimed his struggle to retain dignity and independence was inspirational and beautifully drawn out . Gruen also did a great job moving seamlessly between the Senior Jankowski and his youthful 23 year old counterpart . Sometimes I would n't even notice even though decades separated the characters when we 'd moved from one to the other which is not easily accomplished . They were both struggling with the angst of the past the ugliness of the moment and the uncertainty of moving forward.I 've read reviews where some took exception to using Schizophrenia as an excuse for one of the characters cruelty and explosive episodes as his behaviors were not typical for Schizophrenia . And they definitely were n't ! However in the 30 's Schizophrenia was not well understood and likely frequently misdiagnosed becoming a catchall for describing many signs of mental illness . I do n't believe this should detract from the story.My grievances are few but I did have some issues with the ending which I found unrealistic although I 'm not sure we were intended to interpret the ending so concretely . If you take it beyond face value the ending can have some very deep meaning . I think it depends entirely on the reader to decide for themselves . ",4
"A really good read . A peek into the workings of the old time circus life along with memorable characters and storyline . Love the way the auther potrayed Jacob as a crochety old man . Could n't put the book down . ",4
"I really enjoyed it . The insight into the circus world in the depression was very interesting and it was well written . ",4
"I just loved this book it has one of the best endings i have read for a long time . The writing is so good you feel that you are part of the circus and that it was all true and not fiction . ",4
"I felt like the elephant was almost a person . I really enjoyed reading this book . ",4
"Loved it ! This is a book you remember long after you have ready it . Highly recommend . It is a very moving book . ",4
"i like the description plus the reviews from the buyers are quite fantastic so by the end of this month im going to buy this im thinking though if i can wait for 3 weeks or just buy it on a bookstore nearby..hope i can find it if ever i will buy it from a store ! so excited ! ",4
"Water for Elephants is a wonderful love story that takes place during 1930 's America on the circus route . The story is funny historically factual and touching . Animal lovers will enjoy Rosie and Queeny and all the members of the menagerie and the feel good end of this tale and its hero Jacob . ",4
"I had a little trouble getting into this book but I kept reading because my best friend loved it so much . After the first few chapters I was hooked . I could n't put it down and I was sorry when it was over . Except for the slow beginning it would 've gotten 5 stars from me . ",3
"Just captivating.I found it incredibly easy to get wrapped up in this story and I fell in love with Jacob immediately . I look forward to more from Gruen . ",4
"Great bookI loved how it was told by a 93year old man in a nursing home.very good detail about circus life . A very difficult life for circus folks . The characters are ones you wo n't forget.some because of their goodness and others because of how awfully they treated others.After reading some of what goes on at a circus I do n't think I will drink any lemonade or eat any of the prepared food at a circus . ",4
"Take a glimpse into life in the circus in the 1930 's with this wonderful piece of fiction . The characters will captivate you . ",4
"This enticing circus tale was spectacular . It made me laugh and fall in love evicted anger and softened my heart . Truly lovely . ",4
"Could n't stop reading this book . i finished it in one day . hope the movie is as good as the book . ",4
"Water for Elephants is a fresh engrossing tale told by a ninety something year old Jacob Janowskiwho was a vet at a 5th rate circus for a summer in 1931.He meets a lot of interesting people at the circus one is a much picked upon depressed midget who is also a clown whose only friend is his dog a goofy drunk hobonamed Camel and the beautiful Marlenathe secret object of Jacob 's affection.Marlena performs some of the most amazing stunts with her elephant and horse act along with her physically abusive husband August who is a paranoid schizofrenic and not above snuffing people out that get in his way.Jacob also paralels the way the circus life was with his present existance in a nursing home.He has recently lost his wifeand his kids are elderly too and can not take care of him either.He makes friends with a nurse who just gets him and does n't treat him like an invalid & goes out of her way to make him happy.If you like a good storywith detailedcolored stop my review immediately and please go get this book ",4
"I read this book as one of the monthly selections for my book group . We all loved it . It is a human love story an animal love story a novel about a young man who overcomes terrible loss and a tale of survival . As a child of parents who grew up during the Depression I was interested in how the history of that era played a role in the plot . I found the descriptions of the social hierarchy of circus performers their relationships with the animals and the perspective of how they function as a subculture especially informative . The author makes us the readers really love or hate the characters and there were a few times when I found myself wishing I could step into a scene and protect or stand up to some of the characters . Although the ending did n't seem quite realistic it does fit with the hopeful dreams we all conjure up when we visit the Big Top . ",3
"I loved this book . It was so sweet in an adult fairy tale sort of way . I enjoyed the characters the description of the animals the whole premise of the story . Long after I had finished and recommended it to everyone I know I still think about the characters and miss reading about them . ",4
"This is such a different setting than anything else I have read in the past . It was refreshing . Yeah there is a love story but it doesnt take over the book . I really enjoyed it . ",4
"I have read this book three times over the past three years . The story is not only compelling it is a very real look at what life ' B ' circuses was really like . I had a greatuncle who worked in ' B ' circus troops who told his stories of life in such traveling troupes to my father who retold those stories to me . I could not find one flaw is this recount of circus life in the 1930s . ",4
"Loved it loved it loved it . Gruen 'feels ' what it must be like to retain a facile mind but be trapped in an aging body . What do we have left ? Our memoriesthe 'pictures ' we have made through life that are filed away in our memory banks . Props to Gruen for her obvious deep research into the time period especially what circus life was really like during the depression and beyond . Her characters are engaging and true to form and she uses them to weave a wonderful tale . A great read . ",4
"It got slow in the middle . The ending made the book worth reading . It was very sad to read how animals are treated by circus handlers . ",2
"I really enjoyed this book . I never really had any interest in the circus but this book has me wanting to go now . I love how you find out what is going on in the characters life now . ",4
"This is a very good read . Circus life is n't a subject I know much about so from the historical perspective it was very interesting . I like that the story incorporates so many different sociological issues and is such a good argument for animal rightsespecially circus animals . ",3
"This was an easy entertaining and informative read . I was enjoying reading this so much that I had my mom and a friend read it too on their kindle and they both loved it . I wanted to read it for entertainment but ended up enjoying learning so much as well through the story . I did not see the movie but now I might just to see how much justice they did to the book . Plus I read it free from the Kindle Lending Library but it would have been worth buying ! ",4
"This is a good book . Its not the best I ever read but it was a nice easy read . I would read it again ! Has a sweet story to it . ",3
"I picked this up not knowing a thing about it except the blurb so I was pleasantly surprised to find this story of love and betrayal under the big top one of the most engaging tales I 've read in a long while . I 'm not much into romance but this is so much more than that so I could n't pull myself away . As a bonus I learned about the dark side of the circus industry during that era . Gaslighting where they throw the circus hands off the train in the middle of the night to avoid having to pay them was a new term to me . Despite the cutthroat world they live in the young veterinarian protagonist and the circus star he has a crush on try to rise above it all at risk of life and limb.What tops it off is the story has one of the most satisfying endings I 've encountered in a long time . I 've passed my book along to my mother and it has since gone through the hands of three of my sisters . They all loved it . I 'm a big fan . ",4
"My book club read and discussed this book a few years ago . All but one of us hated it . I knew then that it was writtenor editedfor easy adaptation to film.Ta da ! ! The overall skeleton of the story is not bad I just wish that another writer fleshed it out . This is minor literary fiction at best . ",0
"What a great book . When it was done I wanted so much to have more to savor . The detail and descriptions impressed me in this book they were so nicely done without having boring detail . Covering two differenttimes of Jacob 's life as a young man then as an older gentleman . Both funny and sad and an enjoyable read . ",4
"Once you start you ca n't stop ! I devoured this book as fast as I could . Even when I was n't reading it I was waiting until I could again . Fantastic story . ",4
"With all the positive ratings I had high hopes for this book . But alas I could n't help wondering what all the fuss was about . I found the story fairly boring and eventually could n't wait to be done with it . It 's another romance set in a circus . The characters were not that appealing and the book could probably have been condensed to half the verbage . Suffice it to say I did n't like it . ",1
"This book was captivating from page 1 . The story kept a good pace and is one of those books you just do n't want to put down . I really connected with the main character and felt his emotions as if they were my own . Other characters were both likable and despicable but all the while intriguing . A very interesting story and enlightening as well . I can imagine life on a circus train during the depression and realize now that it was not all it was cracked up to be . Highly recommend ! ",4
"Sara Gruen is a truly gifted writer . Water for Elephants follows a young man Jacob during depressionera America after he loses his entire family to a car accident . Soon after dropping out of vet school following the deaths Jacob jumps a train that turns out to be a circus . The story is his coming of age story with romance violence hilarious adventures and mystery . All set against the canvas of the larger than life traveling 'menagerie . 'The story is told by Jacob as a 90+ yearold reminiscing about his days in the circus when one comes to town across the street from his retirement home dredging up longforgotten memories . I absolutely LOVE the ending where Jacob 'escapes ' his retirement home on yet another adventure ! Cheers to Gruen I will look for more of her books . This one was superb ! ! ",4
"This book was recommended to me and I 'm glad I read it . It is not something I normally would have read but I did enjoy it . I knew nothing about the circus and so was fascinated by the story . I usually read family saga type novels so found this one not as easy to read . It is however an excellent book and well worth the time and effort . Very interesting . ",3
"I like getting lost in a novel . That is to get so involved in the storyline I forget about my immediate environment . Authors can achieve this goal by producing actions that borderlines the plausible . When actions are too plausible the novel becomes trite . As a consequence a reader will lose interest . When the actions totally lack plausibility the reader becomes aware of one 's immediate environment . Within this scenario the author forces the reader to assess the logic of the actions and the flow of the storyline is disrupted . Somewhere between plausible and implausible is best for a storyline.Although Gruen is a talented writer with a rare command of the written word her description of flunking out of Veterinarian school was too implausible . EVEN Cornell professors would give a second chance if a student 's parents died prior to comprehensive exams ! The implausible wrinkle forced me into reality throughout my reading experience . It was n't until the chapter 23 page 314 when I realized that Gruen skillfully left out some critical information . Thus what seemed too implausible at the beginning became reasonable at the end . We reach borderline plausibility.Yet the novel does n't end there . A second storyline that Gruen skillfully weaves throughout the novel emerges into a second borderline plausible event . The novel ends with an unexpected double whammy.WATER FOR ELEPHANTS is a wonderful story . It can best described as quirky with several unanticipated twists and turns . ",4
"This is one of the best books I have read in a very long time . A story that grabbed me and kept me wanting more . A story of right and wrong of revenge with a special twist . ",4
"I did NOT expect this graphic brutality when I bought this book circus animals killed because of lack of food or just laziness on the part of the handlers . The story starts off in an engaging way Jake the old man in the nursing home was entertaining . But there were too many instances of animals being abusedkilled that I could not finish this book as it seemed to become the main focus . Too many animals in life are mistreated as it is and I do not need this information shoved in my face via a novel . This book should come with a warning to potential readers right on the front cover . ",0
"I was worried at first about reading this book because I hate to read about any animal cruelity and I imagined there would be some . My fears were partially realized but I must say there was no gratuitous violence . Most of it was mentioned but not shown . That being said I absolutly loved this book . The characters were portrayed in such a way that you could feel the emotions and physical triumphs and pain . Poor Jacob loses his family in an accident and then learns his parents have no money.He in the meantime is unable to finish his schooling for vetrinarian school . My sheer coincidence he ends up being a vet for a circus . All of this is recalled in flashbacks by a 92 year old Jacob who lives in a nursing home . His wife is long passed away and his children have more or less deserted him . Without me giving too much of the book away It is amazing how the reader can almost feel the dirt on their skin and the physical pain of the work all done for the purpose of putting on the best circus show ever . The gossip and segregation of the performers were a sign of the timesduring the early 1920 's and how this could bring about chaos among workers all the way up to the performers . It is abook I could not put down and I read it in two days . I highly reccommend it ! ",4
"I did n't want to put it down . I could feel his misery as he sat in the nursing home . Behinds the scenes of the circus were great . It was easy to get to know all the character and care about some hate others . ",4
"After reading this I had to watch the movie . It was a great book & I would read it again & again ",4
"I was n't sure if I wanted to read this but I picked it up at a garage sale on the cheap . The storyline was completely engrossing and I could n't put it down . I know nothing about circus life so I ca n't comment on whether or not the circus elements are factual . I do have experience both working in and visiting nursing homes and the descriptions here sadly ring true . A review on the cover described the book as gritty and sensual and it is certainly both in a very entertaining way . One of the few books that I immediately wanted to read again as soon as I finished it ! ",4
"This book is awesome . I usually like to read the book first and then see the movie . In this case I saw the movie first . So happy I still read the book . It captures so much more of the characters ' essence . ",4
"An enjoyable three ring circus ! With many acts and clowns both more ways than one . The reader participated in sights and sounds ! This multilayered book was a high flying wire show ! Bravo ! ",3
"A story about doing the right thing and protecting those who ca n't protect themselves animals or people . This novel had me hooked from the beginnning . Your heart will swell and break and swell again but you wo n't be dissappointed . ",4
"Great book . Kept my interest to the very end . Love the details about the circus . The ending was great . It was not the endingI expected . ",4
"This book is one the best books I have ever read . I read a lot of books . This was a very good story . ",4
"The best part of this novel is the portion in the present day when the main character is an elderly man . His flashbacks tell a story of an impetuous and hardtosympathizewith attraction to a married woman and his painful experiences working for a circus under a couple of bad guys including a sadist who abuses animals and people alike . Throw in a fantasylike description of an elephant 's intelligence and abilities and you can decide if it 's your type of story.I read some of the good reviews to try to figure out what the draw is from this book and I still do n't get it . It was a chore to read and the only reason I finished it is because it is so popular I assumed I would finally appreciate something about it . ",1
"I loved every moment of reading this book with the exception of the last 5 pages or so . The ending in my opinion was forced rushed incredible and slightly ridiculous . To have this wonderful beautifully written story end in such a way really did the story an injustice . I still recommend reading it because it was a beautiful story and was fantastically written but the ending left so much to be desired . ",4
"A beautiful piece of fiction that you almost wish was true . An uplifting story of love and redemption a story of hope . ",4
"Awesome story . Very captivating and well written . Thank you to editor of the book as well . Always nice to read a well written well edited book ! ",3
"I bought the book at Costco and did n't have time to read it . So when I saw the audiobook at the library I immediately checked it out . It kept me enthralled through every minute . Loved the characters human and critter . And I found the story poignant and moving . The characters are very realistic the era is intriguing and the story will capture your heart . ",4
"usually thebook is better than the movie but the movie was so wonderful . It was one of the best I ever saw I ca n't recommend it enough . It was n't bloody . It was wonderflu ",4
"The book is so amazing and detailed that the movie may ruin it for you . This is a true adventure story of the circus life which really brings you in makes you love the characters and have fun . You will not be able to put down this sexy colorful and exhilerating novel . After reading you will miss and want more of the story .this is a fabulous must read for anyone looking for a spectacular story . ",4
"The depth to which you become attached to these characters and the storyand their stories is remarkable . I read this book in 2 days which is a big deal considering I have a full time job husband and a 7 month old . Definitely recommend this book ! ",4
"Really great book . The characters are interesting particularly our hero Jacob . The setting is vibrant a circus during the Great Depression . The plot moves at a great pace and the material is really well researched . All of which comes together under some excellent writing that provides just enough detail to make everything real and interesting without banging you over the head with it . Throw in murder sex and a big elephant wearing pink sequins and you have a fab book . The very end is charming too . I highly recommend it ",4
"In a long list of critical praise on the first four pages of the paperback edition for Water For Elephants The Chicago Tribune is quoted as saying the novel is so compelling so detailed and vivid that I could n't bear to be torn away from it for a single minute.My sentiments exactly.Water For Elephants is one of the most engrossing novels I 've read so far this year another is Khaled Hosseini 's A Thousand Splendid Suns and now that I have finished it in what seemed a whirlwind of time I stay at home with two small children and I still read it in three days ! Sara Gruen is among my list of favorite authors . I look forward to the debut of her fourth novel Ape House scheduled to be released in October of this year.The CanadianAmerican author does n't waste any time putting the reader in suspense . The novel starts off smack dab in the midst of a cacophonous stampede of circus animals lions and tigers and bears oh my ! and someone 's impending doom . Want to find out what happened ? Read the book and I 'll guarantee you wo n't stop ` til you reach the end . The engrossing tale is told in flashbacks from the mind of Jacob Jankowski a man who is encroaching the end of his life at an impressive ninety years of age or ninetythree . One or the other.. Jacob resides at an assisted living facility and is the consummate old fart crotchety and bitter about the black void of his current living . It is n't until word that the circus is coming to town that something inside of him stirs and memories of his youth from the furthest recesses of his mind float to the murky surface.We are suddenly thrust into the past at the inception of the Great Depression . Jacob is twentythree and a student in his final year at Cornell University working towards a degree in veterinary sciences when he is pulled out of class one day in 1931 to earthshattering news his parents are dead after a sudden and fatal car accident . Left with little to fall back on Jacob takes a short leave and returns to school to finish out the year but his grief over the loss of his mother and father shadows his professional goals and he walks out in the middle of his final test the integral exam that will earn him his degree . Having committed career suicide Jacob goes walking aimlessly for an entire afternoon and inexplicably jumps a passing train in the night . Little does he know that this one small act has just changed his entire future.After being roughed up by a car full of working men Jacob learns that he has just boarded the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth You done landed yer ass on a circus boy a big top rivaling the Ringling Brothers and headed by tyrannical ringmaster Alan Bunkel dubbed Uncle Al . It is n't until he lets loose that he 's a Cornelleducated vet that he gets placed in the menagerie working with all the animals in particular a bull elephant named Rosie . Jacob grows fond of Rosie as well as the other animals but his heart really belongs to a woman named Marlena a resplendent young performer who is inconveniently married to an emotionally unstable man named August the equestrian director and superintendent of animals . As Jacob 's love for Marlena grows so does his hatred of August as he watches him grow ever more suspicious and ever more brutal . His violent streak spills over onto Rosie who is rumored to be dumb as rocks and disobedient ever since she was acquired and August makes her pay for her insubordination with recurrent vicious floggings.To make matters worse Uncle Al constantly shafts his workers and performers by docking andor refraining to pay them for their work and when someone 's authority is unduly challenged people mysteriously disappear in the dead of night . Jacob 's unwavering morals suddenly pit him in a dangerous situation and with a love triangle rapidly brewing and a wild animal reaching its breaking point the thunder will crack loud and hard before the storm.The book flits back and forth between the past and present and the transition is fluid there is no confusion between the youthful Jacob and his ninetyyear old self . The descriptions of the circus are vivid particularly the behavior of the animals within the menagerie . Being an avid supporter of numerous animal and wildlife charities this is n't a surprise coming from Gruen and it 's some very interesting character development indeed.Her human counterparts in the story do n't suffer from this thankfully . Jacob is a wellwritten character the youthful version brimming with naivete and conviction and the older of course wiser but still resolute as ever . Gruen shows with Jacob that even after the utmost disastrous of events that time can reign down upon a life some things about our character ultimately never change . The unpredictability of August is also queerly fascinating with expertly written passages of steely smiles cold gazes and passiveaggressive undertones the reader will feel just as perplexed and wary of him as Jacob does.Along with extensive research on the subject of circuses during the Depression Gruen included 17 blackandwhite archival photos of circuses throughout the 1930 's the photos are prominently featured at the beginning of about every other chapter and lend the story some great visuals to feed upon.Bottom Line A superb novel well worth the time and money to read . With a movie deal in the works pick it up now before the film adaptation spoils it in either the best or worst way . ",4
"I do n't even know how to begin this review . This book is so wonderful and so very different from anything that I 've read that I still ca n't believe it . Sara Gruen has written a book that is so carefully researched and so wellwritten that it puts the reader right into the story which is Depressiontime circus life . Jacob is a character that is so real both as he 's portrayed at a young age and as he is portrayed as a 93 year old living with his memories in an old aged home . The story is poignant and also sad . It is quite heartbreaking to think of the way the animals lived that travelled with train circuses during this time . And they had all manner of animals from elephants to apes to zebras to horses to the big cats like lions and tigers . They even had polar bears if you can imagine ! This book is dark in its portrayal of circus life circa 1920 but it 's also heartwarming in Ms. Gruen 's portayal of the many kinds of people that also travelled with these circuses . These train circuses were an entire community and everyone in them was part of the family including the animals . The story is also a lovestory that is so beautifully depicted amongst this varied kaleidoscope of characters and the wonderful animals . And what about amazing Rosie ? She is an elephant that I will never forget ! A totally wonderful reading experience that I did n't want to put down and that I 'm now sad that I 've finished . ",4
"Change after a life disaster drives this wonderful tale of Jacob and his life for several months thereafter . Jacob tells the tale himself as a nonagenarian some seven decades after the fact . His final exams to end his veterinary medicine degree and his anticipated life following graduation come to a crashing halt and leave him wandering aimlessly . Without considering its consequences and noticing no details of the train he stows away on a passing one . Having hopped a circus train Jacob initially faces some ugly hardships before his training leads him to his responsibility in the show . Along the way Jacob encounters challenges and loyalties wellmeaning others and some with decidedly despicable intentions andor means . The characters the lovely and goodhearted Marlena who is the star of the show and her husband August who is volatile in many unappealing ways as well as KinkoWalter Jacob 's initially disgruntled roommate are reasonably strong secondary characters This reader wishes that Marlena had been fleshed out better but that 's a minor complaint . Jacob is terrific flawed as Gruen says she wishes of her characters and a good man placed in difficult circumstances a circus where the rules do n't make much sense particularly if one holds egalitarian views of one 's coworkers . This reader found the practice of redlighting to be totally repugnant and frankly a bit upsetting . Jacob 's interaction with the members of the Menagerie the animals repeatedly shows his appropriateness for his career . Several of the animals ' personalities stand out . Jacob in his youth adapts sometimes well and sometimes badly . Gruen handles Jacob as an old man nicely making him whole and believable with the challenges of his age but still generally holding onto his faculties and sense of independence . Rosemary one of his nurses is a lovingly and warmly portrayed woman . Without spoilers the ending is terrific too . The pacing and flow of the writing help move this gracefully . Wonderful reading and I 've already been looking into more Gruen . ",4
"I have seen Water for Elephants at all the popular bookstores for the last year . It never appealed to me so I always passed over it . This month it was choosen as my book club 's choice and I was pleasently suprised . It was a true page turner and I finished the book in one weekend . Gruen captured the time period and the secret world of circus people during the Depression beautifully . It made me want more and to know more about the people of that era who worked on the circus trains.You wo n't be disappointed . ",4
"I can see why so many were talking about this book . It is a wonderful story with such rich character description you feel like a character in the book . I loved it and would recommend to all my friends . ",4
"Just do n't try to read too much into it . It 's a fantastic idea and the ending is a bit too romantic and incredible but it 's a great book that really makes you think over human nature and love . ",4
"I am an animal lover and elephants are my favorite ! Reading this story I laughed cried smiled and grew angry . Makes me rethink supporting circuses ",4
"I enjoyed reading this book it was hard to put down . It is a lovely love story with several twists and turns . I loved how it showed the emotions of the elephant which made me fall in love with her even more . It reminded me a lot of the Notebook going from present time to past through the main character 's memory . This is definately a must read for the romantic at heart . ",4
"Difficult to put down the story stayed with me even after the book was closed . The basic string of the plot a young man Jacob so overcome with grief that he runs away with the circus . Sounds like a cliche right ? Yet Gruen creates a rich world full of gritty people with lives that figuratively walk a tight rope . The traveling circus was a roller coaster of success and disappointment Gruen brings to light the many fascinating facets of this unusual lifestyle.Cliches abound and the plot a little predictable but it did not distract from the interesting tale . I would have liked to have seen a little more depth form the main characters . And there were a few unbelievable aspects leaving an Ivy League education in the final hours knowing what their family sacrificed to provide it just to try and forget their grief ? It would have been very disrespectful and irresponsible to do so . But without this selfish act the story would not have moved forward My favorite aspect was the animals . I cringed at the cruelty which I am sure was common place for circuses but was uplifted by the triumphant pachyderm . Even the common dog was spotlight worthy . Overall a well told tale about grief and love wrapped up in a childhood fantasy . ",3
"I know several people who have read this and loved it . I just could not get into it . It is a good story but that is about it . I expected a lot more depth to the story based on all of the hype is was receiving . I was very disappointed in the end . It is not something I would recommend to others . ",1
"This is a book that grabs you from the beginning . It 's a fantastic story that keeps you interested the whole way through . And it 's a quick read . I just loved it so much . It 's something for everyone from the historical interest in the life of the traveling circus people during the depression to the descriptions of old age in a nursing home . I actually insisted my husband read it when I was done . He 's not an easy man to please but had to admit how much he enjoyed it as well . I purposely do n't want to say too much about the story since I enjoy reading books fresh without too much advance information . The only negative I would say is that the ending was bit unbelievable to me . But by that time everything else was so great I did n't really care . It was as though the author was all done and did n't know how to end it . But I can forgive that . ",4
"Outstanding ! Refreshing new topic new ideas utterly wonderful.A dark comedy lovestory about a circus during the Depression . The characters are developed and strong . The plot not missing a beat . And the animals got ta love the animals and their personalities ! Jacob is in vet school until he drops out suddenly . He leaves his exam and walks all night until he no longer can manage another step . As he rests a train comes down the tracks in the middle of nowhere . He runs as fast as he can and jumps the train . It 's all over as Jacob discovers he is on a carniestrain ! He befriends Camel a circus hand who recruits Jacob to join.Interesting dark and wonderfully full . They style and measure by which M. Gruen writes is so welcoming and it is evident by her comments that she paid attention to details in her research.Would definitely read again ! 5 out of 5 ",4
"I do n't read a lot of fiction these days because I do n't havethe time but I picked this book up from my Mom over my summervacationAnd boy was I glad I did . Some books do more thancapture your mind they create a certain feeling or emotionthat captures your heart too . This is one of those books.The author 's voice has a certain cadence and style that sucksyou in from page one . And what seems to be a simple tale ofdepressionera circus life with an obvious outcome soon takesunexpected twists and turns to a surprise ending that had melaughing and crying at the same time.If you read one novel this year I 'd highly recommend this one.It ranks right up there with many of my all time favoritebooks . ",4
"This book had a bit of everything ! At first I did not think I would be interested in reading about a circus but that quickly changed ! ! ! ! ",3
"I read about the first chapter or so I just could not get into this book . I was no impressed and just could n't do it . Waste of money for me . ",0
"I really enjoyed this book . I usually like to read a book vs seeing the movie . The book is usually way better . This was a pretty good book . Loved the elephant . She was very smart in the end . ",3
"This book was a very easy read I will say that . It was very accurate with the time frame an all the language used . Other than that the story was n't very captivating . There was no twists or anything really interesting . I wonder if the movie is actually better than the book . ",2
"Loved it ! This book had everything ! Villans heros romance monkeys and elephants . What more could you want ? I loved how the story was weaved between past and present times . It was beautifully written and helped capture a part of our American past that I had never been exposed to before . I literally laughed and cheered embarassingly along the way and talk about a grand finale ! ",4
"I liked the information about traveling circuses . This book was an easy read . I especially enjoyed the time period and the first person accounts of life in a circus . The action in the story was unpredictable . I will be looking to read some of her other work . ",3
"This was very different from the books I normally read but I was unable to put it down . It 's an easy fun read . ",4
"I enjoyed the book . It was captivating and entertaining start to finish with some creative twists along the way . Ca n't wait to see the movie now . ",4
"I really enjoyed this book ! It took me back to watching the circus train go through Devils Lake State Park when i was young . Great job by the author in educating herself on circus life and history . ",4
"This is certainly an entertaining piece of work one that will keep you occupied for the 46 hours that it takes you to read it . Definitely not heavy lifting but amusing and well worth the time.The story revolves around Jacob Jankowski a 93 year old nursing home resident who flashes back to his early adult years spent in the Benzini Brothers circus . The circus backdrop provides the opportunity to introduce numerous colorful characters and anecdotes many of which are historical that keep the story moving along at a good pace.The book opens with a prologue which is revisited near the end of the novel with an extremely well devised plot twist and puzzler . I thought this was extremely well done . The end of the novel involving the 93 year old Jacob was also very satisfying.All in all a light entertaining and easily consumed piece of work . ",3
"What a delightful book . I was hesitant at first to pick up but so very glad I did . It had me in it 's clutches on the first page and I could n't put it down until the last . What a wonderful cast of characters both good and evil . I have recommended to many and hopefully they will read as well . Thank you Sara for such a good time ! ",4
"I loved this book and was so sorry when I finished it ! I liked the characters and they were very lifelike . It was one of the best books I 've read in a very long time and is way at the top of my favorites list ! I will read it again and again ! ",4
"What a wonderful balance between how an older person in declining health must feel with all of its frustrations and grief and lonelinessand the exciting story of a young man and a circus and love and passion and jealousy the animals are portrayed with sensitivity and the freaks are shown in all of their humanity . An excellent read . ",4
"The details about circus life were brought to life and were enthralling . This book was a page turner and I emensely enjoyed it . Finished it in 5 evenings . Only downside was that there were 3 or 4 raunchy scenes that we could have done without . I found myself just skipping over these pages . All in all loved the story . Felt like I was a spectator at the real thing . ",4
"I did not like this book at allI thought it cruel..even in fiction i do not like reading about people who torment simply because they cani could n't finish this novel ",1
"I really enjoyed reading this book . It was a page turner and very unique . I would highly recommend this book to anyone looking for a quick good read . ",3
"What an enjoyable story ! At 65 I have memories of seeing small circuses as well as Ringling Bros . I also find myself wondering about the future will I live to a ripe old age & will my family still care about me . This book was very well researched & written . ",3
"This is a different story line than I 'm used to reading but it was very interesting . I read it in about a week . I then gave it to my mom to read and she enjoyed it also . Interesting take on circus life . ",3
"Every now and then a story comes along that leaves a lasting impression . This was one of them . I loved the story the storyline was good and the character development was great . I 'd definately recommend this book to anyone . ",4
"Okay first off I had to think about this review long & hard before posting it . Here goesI feel cheated . This book was so hyped up & I 'm sure it had to do with the movie which I refuse to seebut that 's another storyI like the story . I love the start & the end & for those that actually read the bookyou know what I 'm talking about . For those that have n't read the book I wo n't give it away.So what did n't I like ? SPOILER ALERTstop here if you have n't read the book & plan to do so.I did n't like that the love story never really evolved . It was just like Jake likes Marlena & she likes itboomnow her husband knows they are in love . WHAT ? When did that develop ? I needed more detail about their relationship & it just was n't there.I did enjoy the history of the circus life & the life during the Depression . I thought the Polish elephant was a riot . I thought the old pictures from circus life back in this time period was a great addition to the book.But I really ca n't get over the story developement for Jake & Marlena . Come on ? I ca n't be the only one who was expecting more on them ? ? Can I ? Overall the hype around this book was set too high . I would not recommend this book to anyone.Guess I 'll donate the book to the local library . ",0
"I had no idea what circus life was like & found this story to enlighten me . Cruelty to the animals is tough to read but reality is sometimes difficult to face . The interesting day to day life of circus employees plus the dramatic differences in how workers vs performers were treated was dramatic ! The relationships between the characters were interesting . I enjoyed this book in spite of the cruelty to animals & some vulgarity . ",3
"I did enjoy this book . It was interesting to see how the circus used to be in the past . I thought it could have been better written and the plot seemed to fizzle out . But with a good imagination you can read more into the characters than the book discloses . Overall I am glad I read the book ! ",3
"I read this book before seeing the movie . The book of course is much better than the movie . Everyone wants to run away and join a circus right ? Well I wanted to when I was younger ! I love this author and her style of writing . She draws you in right away and you feel as if you really know her characters ! Even if you saw the movieRead the book ! ",4
"WOW . It 's been a long time since I read a book this goodI was so sad when it ended ! I kept wishing I could share more of Jacob 's amazing lifeand the ending what a boffo finish . I would have NEVER guessed that one ! This is much beyond a good summer readhow is it this book did not hit # 1 ? ? I love historical fiction and I am usually very 'into ' the time period and the 'feel ' of the erathis one was particularly evocative you could swear you smelled the animal cars the greasy scent of the carnie food the whiff of the stale sleeping quarters . I could almost feel sweet Rosie 's pain at the hands of the cruel August and when he met his fate I cheered Rosie like she was a hero she 's an ELEPHANT . What a rich readif you begin it make sure you do n't need to sleep that night ! ",4
"It 's a very imaginative story that you do n't want to end . My only complaint would be that the bad language is a bit much . ",3
"It was just not what I thought it would be . I 'm sure it 's a good book just not for me . ",2
"Jacob looks back to memories of love and his time with the circus when he was a young man . He needs them now more than ever to get him through the declining life he lives out in a nursing home . The story portrayed a difficult sad evil circus environment where animals were mistreated by men who mistreated each other as well I guess to survive the depression . I wanted more from the story than its hopeful ending . I wanted throughout to be lifted above its base struggles . I want more vivid descriptions of scenes and increased depth to the characters . What Jacob like so many in nursing homes needed most was the comfort of family friends and staff to listen to care . A well written book with depressing undertones . ",3
"A wonderful depiction of life in the circus world as seen through the eyes of a man who worked in one during the great depression . This story comes to life more strongly with every turn of the page ! Gripping ! ! ",3
"I purchased this book per recommendation and thoroughly loved the book . Great storyline and an enjoyable read it has become one of my favorites . ",4
"Really interesting ! Read this bookyou wo n't be sorry ! Loved it quite unique and kept my interest well . Give it a try ! ",4
"This was a very romantic and sweet book . In the beginning I found Jacob to be very real moving and sympathetic . Ahh but then the circus comes to town and we 're back to his youth The travails of working in a traveling circus are real and riveting the details seem accurate . At times I thought the author lost her voice but for the vast majority of this book I enjoyed it a great deal ! ",4
"Great premiere book from this author . I thoroughly enjoyed the read . It gives a ringside appreciation for life in the traveling bigtop . ",4
"This was an interesting one for me . I 've had this book on my to read shelf at home for over a year and never picked it up until now . I have no idea why . I was excited when I bought it and then never did anything about it . Now the movie is coming out and I wanted to read the book first.The old man telling the story really pulled me in and came to life for me . I really felt for him ! And laughed at him because he is quite funny . He is flashing back to his youth when he joined the circus and fell in love.The author has amazing talent . She really paints a vivid picture . Unfortunately too well at times . There were some really nasty crude scenes that set the tone for the book and the train life and the depression but they were way too much for me . Very disturbing . If you do n't like books with sex scenes then avoid this one ! They paint a picture that you would rather not have in your head.Once you get past all that crude stuff then the book comes alive . You get sucked into the life of this cute elephant and of the love story between Marlena and Jacob . Unforgettable that is for sure . Moved me almost to tears at a few points with the elephant.Because of the crude stuff I would have to rate this just 3 out of 5 's . If some of that would have been cut out then it easily would have made 5 's . I hope some of it is cut out of the movie ! ",2
"excellentsorry I waited so long to read it never saw the movie yet either ! Guess I 'm just late with everything ",4
"This book was well written but I have to admit I had difficulty getting through some of the elephant torture passages in fact I am still cringing thinking of them not that some humans did n't face some awful abuse as well in this book ",2
"First let me say that the book is somewhat graphic compared to what I usually read so if you 're something of a prude put it back . That having been said I LOVED this book ! ! I loved the character of Old Jacob and the treatment of him as an old man how true to life and how we all wish it was n't really true but it is . I felt the characters were adequately developed over the course of the book this may irk some reviewers because they want to know everything about everyone in Chapter 1 well I say read on and you 'll find out what you need to know to empathize with them . The only thing I felt was n't fleshed out was what Camel had done to his family that he did n't want to go home to them but since it was n't pertinent to the story line I 'm OK with that . The character of Young Jacob was somewhat victim rather than victor but I felt that was accurate based on the circumstances in which he found himself and I appreciated his feeling of impotence at changing his circumstances.No this is not literature folks this is a highly enjoyable story that is riveting engaging and gives us a glimpse into another era and another lifestyle . I highly recommend it ! ",4
"This book is soso though it seems to be very well researched in terms of both circus lore and the depression . I can understand anyone with a passion for the circus or the 1930 's getting excited about it but for the average reader it has nothing special to offer so I am shocked by the positive attention and time on the best sellers list this book has generated . Without giving any spoilers away let me say the book is very cliched and predictable and the leading human characters are all undeveloped and quite stereotyped . The animals are perhaps given a little more rounded personalities . The circus portion of the story ends in a fantastic and unbelievable manner and the other story in which our hero is now an old man in a nursing home ends in just as unlikely manner . Others have commented on the great cover and I wonder if that is responsible for the surprising success of this book . THE CIRCUS IN WINTER by Cathy Day which came out a couple of years ago is a much better written book and is just as well researched with a very similar setting . ",2
"I must confess I had to listen to the audio version of this because I 'm not allowed to open my Kindle until Christmas . Either way this was the best book I 've read in a very long time . I think I could understand Jacobs feelings about being in the nursing home since I had to deal with my mom being in a nursing home . His description about sitting in the dining room was so real . Do yourself a favor and enjoy it . Also it has a great ending . ",4
"Went into this with an attitude because of the overexposure it was receiving but my reservations quickly faded and I was actually flying through the pages to an unexpected heartwarming ending . ",4
"This was a very entertaining book . I never would have guessed I would like a book about a circus . But I loved it . When I first started it I did n't know how it was going to be but I never stop reading a book without finishing it so I read on . The storyline sucked me in deeper and deeper until I was hooked and by the end of the book I was not ready for it to be finished . ",4
"I have n't seen the movie I usually prefer the books anyway so had little knowledge of the plot . I really enjoyed the history of how the country was during the Depression and how basically lawless the country still was where people could come and go and even disappear . I enjoyed learning the levels of society within the circus and the behind the scenes look at the life of performers and workers . Life was hard in those days with no government assistance to fall back on . Aside from the window into a different time and place the plot was interesting too . ",3
"This is easily one of the best books I 've read in the past five yearsand that 's high praise because I read constantly and I 've read some amazing books . What sets Water for Elephants apart is not only the incredible quantity and quality of research that went into it but the way Gruen employs her pool of researched knowledge to craft her plot characters and milieu.In lesser hands a story or book that relies on heavy research can hit the reader over the head with it to the detriment of concentration and enjoyment . Long explanatory paragraphs tedious but unnecessary details the sacrificing of the Big Picture to sideshowsthese are sins that are distressingly common in historical novels . It 's like the author has taken all this trouble you 've got to see what he dug up like it or not.In Gruen 's case not one detail is out of place . Not one fact is gratuitous . Everything fits everything moves the plot along or enhances the characters . The picture develops fully in living color without clutter the settings are so true you can smell the young hobos and their fire and touch the sweat on the horses . The most unbelievable bit is believable because you trust Gruen as a storyteller . She is that good a writer.I hate to review a book when so many have and god knows my opinion wo n't make a whit 's difference in the sales of this book or its success . But it was just so good I felt compelled to weigh in . To say Beautifully done.Long may Water for Elephants ride on the Best Seller list.Susan O'Neill authorDo n't Mean Nothing Short Stories of Vietnam ",4
"Just finished this wonderfully colorful novel & I was not disappointed..Once I started readingI could NOT put it downLoved the circus settingstrong characters and animalsNow I can not wait to see the movieOne of the best stories I have read all year.And the author very realistically portrays what it actually means to get olderI 'm not as old as the elder Jacob yet but each year that goes byI can tell the difference in the physical abilities.If you are looking for entertainmentthis book will provide it . ",4
"I had to read this book twice that 's how much I enjoyed it . Then I saw the movie . Great heart wrenching story great characters . . . I wo n't soon forget this story . ",4
"Since acquiring my Kindle I 've started playing a new game . I download samples of all kinds of books . If I can get hooked in the first few chapters well clearly the author deserves the book sale.That is exactly what happened with Water for Elephants . Almost immediately I was completely drawn into the story . Ms. Gruen uses an effective framing device for her tale . Nonagenarian Jacob Jankowski is telling his story in flashbacks from his present in a nursing home . And it is the story of his first job out of veterinary school . The year is 1931 and the country is embroiled in the Depression . Tragedy sends Jacob fleeing his orderly life . Without trying to the young man winds up running away to the circus.Water for Elephants is a coming of age novel a buddy tale a period drama and a love story . It 's one of those rare novels that seems to captivate almost all readers . I came late to it but I was as entranced as all those who have raved before me . Gruen 's prose is strong but it 's her characters and setting that capture the imagination . I have n't been to a circus in decades and have no particular interest in that life . But Sara Gruen is a fantastically gifted storyteller in the most elemental sense of the word . I will be grabbing future novels upon publication . Highly recommended to all who crave a great story ! ",4
"I have yet to watch the movie and I kept picturing miss Reese Whitherspoon throughout the novel . It was great and it made you think of the world from a different point a view . I never realized ityou forget the viewpoint of the story and how it is being told your are sucked right in . It is a great love story and I think the movie will be fantiasticly bold and beautiful.Movie and book are masterfuly mirrored . First time I can say both are in tune with each other . ",4
"I put off reading this book even though it was recommended by friends . I thought I had no interest in a circus book . I was wrong . I am glad I read this story and learned from it as well . Like others have said better than I it is brutal real historical entertaining with a dash of romance thrown in . You do n't have to be a circus fan to like this book it 's message will linger with me . ",4
"I have no idea of why I waited so long to read this book.maybe it was because I could n't imagine finding a book about the circus appealing . But this is one of those books that literally grabs you from the first page and will not let you go until you finish the last.Other reviewers have covered the plot outline . I would like to discuss what enthralled me the author 's ability to capture a time the Depression Era in America and a place the circus and the people that inhabited that world both within and without . I loved the characters she created I cheered on their triumphs and bit my lip at the touching sometimes quite sad moments as well.Gruen moved Jacob the main character seamlessly back and forth in time . And our caring for him grew throughout the book to the very touching and happy ending.I can see why this book has remained on the best seller list . It 's place is well deserved a lovely book..I 'm donating my copy to my local library so that they 'll have another one on hand to check out . ",4
"Excellent read . One of the best books I have read in a long time . ",4
"When veterinary student Jacob Jankowsi 's life is unexpectedly torn asunder he escapes by hopping aboard a passing train . It turns out to be a circus train . The story alternates between the few months Jacob spends with the Benzini Bros. circus during the Depression and the current day in which Jacob is 90+ years old and an unhappy resident of a nursing home . Although most of the story centers on the circus years the author does an excellent job of showing the loss of companionship the loss of independence and the loss of dignity that accompany old age . It 's these passages that ultimately make this a sad book for me . No matter how the circus portion of the story turns out we know how unhappy Jacob is at the tail end of his life.Although Jacob falls in love with Marlena the unhappily married star of the equestrian act the love story was n't the main focus of the story for me . In fact that aspect of the story did n't pick up steam until fairly late in the book . It was more of a coming of ageadventure story . The author did a wonderful job of researching Depressionera circus life and making the reader a part of it . And what a brutal life it was the horrors of poisonous bootleg liquor prostitution terrible treatment of both animals and staff members lack of pay and red lighting throwing people off the moving train who had fallen out of favor or were simply no longer worth the expense . If they were lucky they were thrown off near a town . If they were unlucky they were thrown off a trestle . But it 's also a story of survival and caring among both the animals and the people . It 's a fascinating story and I highly recommend it even though I found it to be a bit sad . ",4
"Water for Elephants what can I say ? The characters were all a bit sad and depressing . The story was not at all uplifting and left me feeling a little down . What is good is that you get a great insight into the travelling circus training around spending one night in each location . Poor workers had such a hard time of it . Worth reading but do n't expect a happy little love story with this one . Oh and I thought the ending was quite unbelieveable . ",2
"I loved this book ! It was different than anything else I 've ever read . I did n't want to put it down at all . Just the right amount of romance and intrigue . There were times that I actually cried its been a long time since I 've read anything that moved me to tears ! Highly recommend ! ",4
"I found this very entertaining . I enjoyed the story and found the whole based on actual history idea of Depressionera people running off to join the circus fascinating . The love story itself is a bit cliche but this is a good read and better than many books I 've read . ",3
"The main character I can sympathize with and can appreciate . You can really imagine what it would be like to be in his shoes in this book . It does a great job of explaining what that particular circus was like back then . I could n't really picture it until I was able to read the book . Im glad I read it . No complaints ! Especially if you love animals ! ! ! ",4
"This view inside the life of people in a traveling circus is not like anything I have ever read before . Since a friend told me it was her favorite book I decide to step outside my mystery craving and try it . While some of the situations are a stretch the character development and especially the relationships were worth the read . It tends toward darkness at times so if that bothers you this is n't the book for you . If not you might enjoy it . ",3
"If you were a kid and experienced the train arriving the parade of elephants and the setting up of the big tent this book will inform you of what went on behind the extravaganza ! I saw the performers outside with their buckets but who would ever imagine what their lives were like ? I went to the side shows ate the cotton candy and this book brought it all back ! This is a great novel with circus history that I fully enjoyed ! A perfect ending to those who wonder about Jacob 's future ! ",3
"From the first page to the last I was hooked on this book . I found the juxtaposition between the past and present fascinating and the peek into the tent of circus live mesmerizing . I read this book in one setting and loved every page . Highly recommend ! ",4
"This is a fast easily read and entertaining book . A must read for animal lovers and circus lovers alike . Kudos . ",3
"Author Sara Gruen has given a wonderful sad and hopeful picture of circus life and of the life of a young man who joins the circus at twentythree . Jacob Jankowski begins the story of his life when he is a very old man living in a nursing home where he is less than happy . The story goes back to his young life when he is a veterinary student and suddenly loses his parents in an auto crash . After the funeral Jacob plans on going back to school and returns only to be unable to take his exams writing nothing and walking away from his years of education to join the Benzini Brothers circus . Because of his veterinary knowledge Jacob is assigned the care of the animals and their problems.August the animal trainer is married to Marlena the elephantrider and beautiful star of the circus . Jacob 's mistake is falling in love with her because August is a brutal man both with his animals and with people . Often an elephant named Rosie gets the brunt of his anger and so does Marlena and eventually Jacob . The rubes suffer under just about everyone in this circus which has a long way to go to even give Ringling Brothers a thought about it.What I enjoyed most about this book is the very colorful and accurate information that Gruen researched well and delivers about the circus . The acts in the ring the different people who make up the circus and the pecking order among them makes for an excellent story . I found the ending fairly predictable but I was glad I was right . Water for Elephants may make you angry it may make you nostalgic but it will certainly entertain you and keep you reading until the last page . ",3
"Sara Gruen 's prose is straightforward and simple her research of Depressionera circus life impeccable . With a gentle hand she transports the reader back to a time and place most of us could never imagine . Along the way her rich charactersJacob the young protagonist whose world implodes as he readies himself for life as a veterinarian Marlena the beautiful circus performer he falls in love with and August her psychotic husband and head trainer of the 'Worst Show on Earth'leap off the page . Water for Elephants is a rickety train ride into the dark seedy melancholy world of the 1930s circus performer . But it 's a trip worth taking . Your final destination is not a place of misery and despair but one of love and hope . And the ending is guaranteed to soften the hardest of hearts.Salmon Run ",4
"This book is amazing ! I could n't put it down ! Not much more to say except wonderful writing and absorbing story line . Also it 's great that the Kindle edition is under $ 4.50 . ",4
"First the title Water for Elephants is quite interesting . It catches my eye and has been since I saw it on the bookshelf . Finally with a copy of my own Sara Gruen 's writing style is quite detailed and specific but she has abundant of information and allows the reader to understand Jacob Jankowski the widowed 90 year old man . In writing about the loss of his parents he writes how he discovered that his parents mortgaged their home to send him to Ivy league college probably Cornell University . He drops out and finds himself working at the circus by providing water for elephants . We know he was married for 60 years . The sccene in the lawyer 's office discovering his parents ' lack of estate was heartbreaking and typical depression era story . The fact that the great depression and stock market crash of 1929 is still relevant in today 's literature . Sara Gruen makes accountability for explaining the details of Jacob Jankowski 's life . ",4
"i loved this book it brought tears to my eyes . growing up you visit the circus but very rarely do you consider the pains that it took to get to that happy place . the love story mingled in with the tales of the circus it is a shocking ending that most wont see coming . ",4
"I really wanted to like this book I really enjoyed learning some of the slang and history of the circus . I like the circus and I was told I 'd fall in love with the animals and the characters of this book . The fact is I hated the raunchy descriptions surely we could do without those . I felt the book to be dark twisted and weird . I did indeed love the animals but did n't like the characters . Honestly I only read half the book because of these things . Too bad . ",2
"boring ! ca n't understand why so many people enjoyed reading this book I read 13 of it and just could n't make myself to read any longer . ",0
"From the first few pages of Water for Elephants you can sense that this is going to be more than just a good book it 's going to worm its way subtly at first and then more fiercely into your soul and hang on long after the last page closes . You 're going to want to gulp it all down quickly but be advised that you will not have time to savor the rich writing and brilliant characterizations unless you slow down and absorb the tale.Water for Elephants is set in a traveling circus in the early 1930s . The narrator Jacob is set to finish veterinary school and join his father 's practice when tragedy strikes leaving him an orphan and penniless . Unable to cope with his change in fortune he wanders off aimlessly and finds himself somehow attached to the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth tending to the animals and developing relationships with performers and regular workers alike . Gruen gives us some of the best characters in this novel Marlena the beautiful horsewoman trapped in a marriage she no longer wants Walter the dwarf who is forced to share a sleeping berth with Jacob Camel the old drunk who meets with an unfortunate turn of events and Uncle Al the devious sinister mastermind behind the circus 's success . As brilliant as these people are it is also the animals who must be lauded Bobo the chimp Silver Star the dying horse Rex the lion who is afraid to leave his cage and Rosie the elephant who shows more intelligence than many a human could hope to possess.Told in chapters that alternate between the circus life and Jacob 's current existence in a nursing home this story is marvelous . It has it all and it will definitely find a place on my keeper shelf . Excellent writing and excellent storytelling . Highly highly recommended ! ",4
"I just finished Water for Elephants and would recommend it to anyone who wants a good read with compelling characters and engrossing storyline . I just could n't put this down which is unusual for me . I loved both stories the old man reaching the end of his life and the young vet who joins the circus out of desperation during the depression . You ca n't go wrong with this one . ",4
"This is my second review on Amazon . I seriously have a lot of catching up to do.I love books about animals as I am such an animal lover myself . The read was cool which hotted up at the end although a little slow moving to begin with . In the second half I could n't put it down I had to know the ending as I was on tender hooks all through the time . I guess part of this story was very emotional . Well worth a read despite the slow beginning . ",3
"Such an engaging story ! I fell in love with the main character . If this is an accurate depiction of circus life I 'm so glad I never joined the circus ! ! ",4
"Never saw the movie but truly enjoyed the book . I think every kid especially two generations ago wanted to run off and join the circus . Seemed like such a glamorous life on the road wearing glittering costumes etc . This book gave the child in me a behind the scenes look at life on the road with the circus . And I can empathize with the passion Jacob has his memories . Quick read . ",4
"If the first few paragraphs ca n't hold my interest I ca n't read a book . I could n't stand to put this book down ! I could visualize throughout the entire story . I hated for it to end.This book far exceeded my expectations . ",4
"This just became one of my favorite all time reads . It is super easy and fast but such a great story of the depression and the very who knew interesting life of a circus . Inspiring a great moral to the story on how to look at life as you grow old.One of those books that you almost feel sad finishing because you love the story so much . ",4
"This was an incredible book . I thoroughly enjoyed it . Every time I sat down to read this book it transported me back to the 1930s . I would read it again . ",4
"I always know that the book is better than the movie but as I saw the movie first sometimes I get a little bored with th book . Not in this case I saw the movie and have to say I loved it . And the book of course was just as good yes better . I could n't put the book down . Wonderful read ! ! ! ",4
"This is one of the few books I purchased one hundred percent based on customer reviews . The sheer number of perfect five star reviews is a great indicator of the quality of this wonderful story . I love paranormal stories and adore mysteries so this type of book is n't what I normally read but the story was so captivating that I was totally drawn into this fictional memoir . I loved that I never knew what was going to happen next and the surprise ending clenched the deal for me . This book is a keeper ! I have already loaned it to my best friend and my mother as well as recommended it on facebook . Now i 'd also like to recommend this book to you too ! From the beginning we are pulled into Jacob Jankowski thoughts and soon after his memories starting when he says I am ninety . Or ninetythree.. I do n't believe he ever does quite remember his age but for a certain period in his life as a young man he lived a very exciting and dangerous life . He basically wondered away after the tragic death of his parents into the nerve wrecking hectic and sometimes deadly world of a circus vet . I love the story of Jacob Jankowski and the resulting romance with a woman he meets in the circus and I think you will too ! ",4
"This was an easy read but too much sex and a depressing theme . It did have a surprise ending . I will compare it to the movie ",2
"Not the most amazing book as far as plotmeaningintellectual mind blowing goes . However Water for Elephants is an extremely entertaining tale a fast paced fun ride of a read . I could n't put it down and had it finished after three days . ",3
"This novel is a great read I found it impossible to put down from the very beginning . The characters are wonderful and the subplots involving Walter the dwarf and the main character really make the whole story exciting . I honestly could not tell how the book was going to end until the last dozen pages even though the first chapter contains quite a bit of foreshadowing I was still secondguessing my assumptions until the very end . I did n't know what was going to happen to the characters that I loved or if there was going to be a happy ending or whether it would be sad . I just was n't sure.I love it when great books keep me guessing . Absolutely one of the best books I 've read all year . ",4
"Was curious about this book and decided to purchase the Kindle version of it and check it out . Throughout the course of the book you see Jake in the nursing home and Jake in the past . Jake in the nursing home is looking forward to seeing the circus which has come to town . But first he has to deal with a couple more days until that time comes and you learn a little bit of what his like is like in the nursing home . He 's not too happy and he every once in awhile starts to reminisce what it was like when he was much younger and he became part of a circus . Since he had been in veterinary school before stowing away on the circus train he ends up being put in charge of the animals . One of which is an elephant . The elephant is not treated well at all and Jake even becomes frustrated with it until the day he realizes that the elephant does n't understand commands because he learned them in another language . Once that barrier is broken he and the elephant end up developing a close relationship as he 's about the only one who actually treats the animals with any compassion and care . He also falls in love with Marlena who is married to the very temperamental ring master . Considering the time period of the book it 's quite possible that her husband suffered from manic depression as the man 's mood swings go from very happy to incredibly abusive and destructive . Over the course of the book we find out more of what happened between Jake and his elephant and also what happened with him and Marlena.Throughout the course of the book you learn a lot about what circuses were like back in the thirties . Sometimes a bigger circus would acquire a smaller circus and combine the two . A lot of times the workers went a long ways toward being paid . And sometimes the owners of the circus would scramble from opportunity to opportunity in order to have enough money to keep the circus running . And the performers traveled from city to city by train which would have not only been hard on them but as the animals as well . If you like animals this can be a difficult book to read from time to time but it 's a fascinating look at circuses that I enjoyed the book very much anyway . Someday I may get the sequel to find out more of what happened to Jake both past and present . ",3
"Someone asked me the other day to list my favorite books of all timethis book definitely ranks in the top 10 ! Gruen charmed me with the characters and made me want to go back in time to the depression era circus . I really wish I had read this unforgettable novel years ago . ",4
"This is one of those books that when the end comes you want to flip it over and start again . It begins with a scene from the climax of the book a real pageturner . A fantastic hook ! Action bounces from present day then back to the 30s then back again . Both settings appear to be thoroughly researched and are written with authority . The author IS a 93 year old man AND a 20something circus vet even though she is a young woman.You will NOT be able to put this book down . ",4
"A good friend of mine who is a Veterinarian recommended this book to me several years ago . Based on her review I purchased the book and it sat on my bookshelf for three years ! ! I considered reading it several times but it was always passed over in favor of other novels that sounded more intriguing . Once I started seeing trailers for the movie adaptation of the novel with Reese Witherspoon and Robert Pattinson I finally extracted the book from its place in the bookshelf and read it . THANK GOODNESS I did ! Water for Elephants is a brilliantly written account of a Veterinarian student who loses his parents in a car crash and ends up joining a circus in a chance encounter . The author clearly depicts what circus life was like in the 1930s and builds larger than life circus folk whose personalities bounce off of the novel 's pages . I highly recommend Water for Elephants it 's a story of loss love animals circus shenanigans and betrayal . It 's a fun romp with a great ending that you 'll thoroughly enjoy . ",3
"This was a great book the only problem was I finished it too quickly because it was so good ! ",4
"This is a wonderful book . One of the best I have read . You will love it..such realistic characters . great story . ",4
"Really a great readEnjoyed it very much . After completing the book read the back to find out was based in part on actual events from the past ! ",4
"I am so glad I read this book it really gives you the real picture of what goes on behind the world of the people who are part of the BIG SHOW This was another book that you can picture all that is going on it was fantastic . ",4
"I admit I bought this book after reading the great reviews and because Robert Pattinson is currently filming this movie and I really enjoyed the story . So much I am reading again . I am so looking forward to the movie when it comes out next year . I recommend this book . ",4
"I 'd been seeing this book pop up on amazon as a recommended read for such a long time and kept resisting reading it . I did n't watch the movie either . I finally gave in to see what all the hype was about and I could n't put this book down ! It was one of the best books I 've read in a long time ! It kept me on the edge of my seat wondering what was going to happen next . I loved it ! ",4
"I enjoyed reading this book mostly because I am facinated by circuses . I also would continue to read it because I was interested to learn what would happen to the lovers in the book . I recommend . ",3
"What a fun readalthough gritty and gruesome in places this book really takes you into the lives of the characters and is a satisfying and enjoyable read . I loved the ending ! I was rooting for Jacob to get to the circus and so glad no one stopped him . Since I am a nurse it made me cringe a little at the nursing home treatment of the elderly and it reminded me to always remember that every patient has their story . ",4
"Shame on you if you ever look at an old person again and do n't remember they were once young and had the world by the tail.Jacob is now ninety or ninetythree he ca n't remember and is living out his last years in a nursing home treated as belligerent and cantankerous.He sits a lot and while he sits recalls his life in the circus . It is an amazing and fantastic story . And so I do n't write a spoiler I will simply say I could n't put the book down ! ",4
"This book is the saga of Jacob Jankowski and the unplanned course his life takes as a result of the untimely death of his parents . One exam away from graduating from Cornell with a degree in veterinary medicine and a partnership with his dad his world is thrown into a tailspin after losing both parents at the same time to an auto accident . Jacob is devastated beyond belief and just starts to run away from everything finding himself following a train unbeknownst to him a circus train . The author takes us on an incredible journey within the travels of the Benzini Circus during the years of the Great Depression . Let 's not forget Rosie the amazing elephant that endears herself to Jacob and becomes the star of the show . Read on to learn the special secret that makes Rosie a star and the bond that develops between Jacob Rosie and Marlena the wife of the head ringleader and a very troubled man . This is a story you wo n't want to miss the movie was good but the book is the very best . ",3
". . . who kept looking for at least one sentence about Rosie 's long life and how it ended ? The author wrapped up everything else so well but the last we hear of Rosie is on page 327 Rosie was getting on in years.I loved the book and will give it a proper review soon but I just finished it and am still wondering How Rosie died ? Did she love the Jankowski children ? Did she live at the Chicago zoo ? Who was with her when she died ? Great story . Well told . Brutal in some parts . Bleak too . But that was life in the Great Depression.It 's 1931 . Jacob Jankowski 23 has the world by the tail . He 's ten days away from final exams at Cornell University 's School of Veterinarian Medicine . After graduation Jacob plans to join his father 's practice back home in Norwich . His life is neat and tidy with only blue skies on his horizons.Jacob 's carefully plottedout life begins to unravel when his parents are killed in a car accident and he finds out his father had lost all his savings in the bank failures of 1929 . Not only is the money gone Jacob discovers his father has left huge loans he can not possibly repay . Jacob ca n't eat . He ca n't sleep . And because his parents mortgaged everything to send him to college he ca n't even keep the family home.After the funerals Jacob returns to school because no other options occur to me . Forty minutes into his final tests he suddenly stands up walks out of the room off of the campus and out of the town of Ithaca New York.I walk until my legs hurt and my feet blister . And then I stop because I am tired and hungry and have no idea where I am . It 's as though I 've been sleepwalking and suddenly woken to find myself here.Jacob hops the first train that passes by and soon discovers he 's landed right in the middle of the Benzini Brothers circus a secondrate traveling show that crisscrosses the country usually just one step ahead of local law enforcement.Jacob gets hired on as the circus vet and spends a long hot summer tending to the circus ' animals and learning about the underbelly of life.Gruen the author of Riding Lessons and Flying Changes tells Jacob 's story in the first person using a series of flashbacks to move from the 30s to the present.Jacob is now . . . ninety . Or ninetythree . One or the other . He 's staying in a nursing home recuperating from a broken hip . He 's not at all happy about his circumstances but he 's enough of a realist to know he can no longer alone.A circus is setting up near Jacob 's nursing home creating quite a stir among the residents and agitating Jacob 's longhidden memories.I do n't talk much about those days . Never did . I do n't know why I worked on circuses for nearly seven years and if that is n't fodder for conversation I do n't know what is.Actually I do know why I never trusted myself . I was afraid I 'd let it slip . I knew how important it was to keep her secret and keep it I did for the rest of her life and then beyond.In seventy years I 've never told a blessed soul.In the Author 's Note Gruen said she spent four and a half months acquiring the knowledge necessary to do just to this subject . . .Gruen uses her impressive storytelling skills to give her readers an unblinking into the rich and sometimes brutal history of the American circus freak show and all.Long after the last page is turned Jacob 's story lingers . Good guys and their loved ones sometimes do finish first . ",4
"From the very beginning of this book I found myself being pulled into the story . The writer 's style is easy to read and the vivid pictures being painted are like watching a movie . If you can not get beyond the fact that the love affair is an adulterous one then you might not like that part of the story but I have n't met anyone who has read it that could n't get past that detail to be able to enjoy the great story . I was able to buy this one while it was on sale but I would n't have been disappointed at twice the price . If you are not sure yet then get the sample and see for yourself what a great book this is . ",4
"I loved this story . The film prompted me to purchase it and I 'm glad that I did . It did n't garnish rave reviews but I think the film did the book justice . ",4
"I LOVED this book ! The three parts I loved the most were the beginning the middle and the end . Great books are far and few between and I am always happy to find one I ca n't put down . If you want to get to bed early or get your house work done do n't read this book . If you do n't mind drinking an extra cup of coffee in the morning and putting the dishes off until later than by all means read this book . Soooooo good . ",4
"Great summer read ! Never saw the movie but really enjoyed reading the book . Fell in love with the main character . ",4
"I can read about any subject if the characters are compelling and I am amazed at the rich characters in this novel . Historical fiction at its finest ! ",4
"An enjoyable read with colorful characters that tug at your heart but I deducted a star because the ending seemed somewhat unnatural and did n't quite fit in with the pace of the novel . Overall this was still a good story highly recommend it . ",3
"This book did an amazing job of transporting me to another time and place . Reading it I really got a wonderful sense of the times during 1931 as well as the brutal daily way of life for people working for a traveling circus . I loved how well the characters were developed.I would have given this book a five star rating however the main love story felt a little too obvious and tired . The underlying love story is how the main character falls in love with the circus and more importantly an elephant . ",3
"The author has obviously done her homework because this book contains the argot the excitement the turmoil of a downandout circus during the Depression . One can smell the sawdust the animals and the people in this graphic story of a young man who runs away with the circus . It is told through the eyes of a nonagenarian and although the ending is predictable one keeps reading for the final denouement . It is inevitable that there will be a disaster and that Rosie the elephant will cause it . The narrator 's desire to once more be a part of the circus is understandable but its happening is a little farfetched considering the way nursing homes are run . However the ending is happily satisfctory and we will not drink lemonade the next time the circus comes to town . ",4
"There should be a warning on books like this ! With all the good reviews I thought it would be a good book so I checked it out from my library . There are porn scenes in this book so I stopped reading and returned it right away . I do not want to read stuff like that . ",0
"This is a definite must read . i loved the way the author protrayed the real lives of circus socity . recomended for young adult to adult ",4
"I enjoyed this book and was eager to finish . A good light read and unique story . I enjoyed having the past and present features . Now I want to see the movie . ",3
"It 's not always that a popular novel lives up to the hypebut this one absolutely does ! What I most enjoyed about this book was that it was unique from most other books that I 've read . I was transplanted to a place and time that I 'd never been or really thought about beforea LIFE I 'd never thought about . It was really fascenating and I learned quite a bit about the circus although some I did n't want to know . I will caution that this book has some very graphic animal abuse scenes.Overall the story kept me reading the characters and their lives were interesting and dynamiceven though some were not likeable . The time passed quickly as I was reading I was curious to see how it would end . I dare say this was one of the better endings to a novel that I 've read I 'd put it up that high for sure . Full circle . ",4
"Water for Elephants presents the memories of a 90something circus veterinarian about the events leading up to his marriage to a star of the show . The novel 's language flows beautifully from start to finish making it an easy vacation read . Circus industry vernacular sets the story persuasively though other reviewers have noted implausibilities . Determined fault finders could ponder why the author downplays the relationships of circuses with the locals railroading lore and depression era culture . But at some point these details would get in the way of telling a good story.While the ending is touching the climax proceeds from one wrong note to another . The protagonist woos a married woman uses her husband 's outrage for justification and undertakes an attack too far out of character . Most of the protagonist 's friends are conveniently written off as the author describes 'redlighting ' health care we can all afford without the dadburn gummint where sick people and their friends are thrown under the train in the dark . The antagonists are killed off the next day in even more unlikely Acts of God executed and covered up by various animals . The speed at which the plot moves here may carry a movie viewer but I found myself thinking I ca n't put this down right now not because it 's great but because there wo n't be a plausible place for me to pick it up again.Memories are notoriously convenient self serving or over dramatizing . So others might give this book more stars for its portrayal of the geriatric mind . Killing off most of the actors resolves the plot within the time constraints of TV or movies at the cost of satisfying character development . Those who write from outlines will feel cheated that the author did n't plan ahead.Injustice distresses casual readers . Extreme events in nearimmediate retribution for evil motives will jar readers who seek plausibility . Unpunished sins of the protagonist claw at the human desire for balance . But the fast transition back to faded memories of the next few years does imitate an older person 's memories . So when the book reaches its touchingly implausible conclusion lots of readers may finish feeling satisfied . ",1
"Wonderful characters bring this story so completely to life I could n't put it down.Excellent imagining of circus life and unexpected plot to boot . ",4
"I 'll defer to the others who have praised this book and will skip the details . Basically I can not say enough good things about this book . The less one knows about the plot going in the better it is.There was one phrase Gruen wrote that was absolutely brilliant . Referring a group of circus patrons she describes them as a swell of rubes . ",4
"I loved the book and watched the movie aftera fabulous story . Excellent job of incorporating the depression and historical references . A tale of love friendships growth and death . Awesome ! ! ! ! ",4
"This book was awesome ! I really could n't put it downone of those books where I try to get somewhere early just so I have time to read while I wait . I bought it because I saw that the movie was coming outand I always like to read a book before the movie . I was NOT disappointed and now am anxiously awaiting the movie release . I loved it how it went back and forth between Jacob 's time in the circus and his life at age 94 . A wonderful love storybut it was much more than that ! I highly recommend ! ",4
"I wo n't belabor the readers with a blow by blow of the plot it is ably covered by other reviews . Know thisthat this is a great book rated a 6 on a scale of 1 to 5 and far superior to the ordinary fare out there today . If you are middleaged or older this will bring back memories of the old circuses and carnieshows if you are younger this is a history lesson . Regardless of age you will thoroughly enjoy this book . ",4
"I loved every minute of this book ! I was surprised that I actually laughed more times than I thought I would . Oldtimey Jacob Jankowski is ten times funnier in the book than he is in the film I own both . I was able to appreciate the differences between the book & movie and think that both are equally sturdy in entertainment value . I loved the bonus features of the book which included actual circus pictures & an interview with Sara Gruen discussing her writing process in the end . The only disappointment I had was that the pictures were really small on my Kindle so you could n't always see them clearly . I have no idea what they look like in the actual book but it would 've been nice for the Kindle version at least to dedicate one full page or half a page to the circus pictures . This book also got me a lot more interested in the ins & outs of the circus industry in the 1930 's & 40 's I also wonder if any of those same practices & rumored practices continue today . This book was very thought provoking & entertaining . I did n't want the story to end ! ",4
"I 've seen the book from time to time but the cover never intrigued me enough to actually buy and read it . Now I wish I had picked it up the first time I saw it ! It is a delightfully different story of a 93 year old man who tells his story of his years in the circus through flashbacks . The topics are obviously well researched and that adds something special to the novel . It is a very engaging read and I would recommend it for anyone looking for a lighter different type of book . ",4
"Good story line and intersting characters . Not a change your life type of book but a good read overall . I have recommended it to several friends and they have enjoyed it as well . ",3
"This book was a great read . It 's simple to follow and very descriptive . I will admit that I bought the book to read once I heard a movie was being made from it but it surpasses the movie in great lengths ! The movie was sorta like this book but not completely . I recommend this book to anyone and everyone . ",4
"I felt that some mention should have been made of the large amount of sex and violence this book contained . The story line was interesting and I enjoyed the surprise ending . In a good book with a lot going for it I do n't see the need for graphic sex and violence . Maybe that 's what sells and picks up movie contracts . ",2
"This was an excellent read welldeveloped characters in both past and present could actually see the people and the scenes automatically as I read . Very hard to put down and I wanted more when it was over . I have added more to the story in my own mind but would have been very happy to read the authors version of a continued story . This was one of the better books I have read in recent years . ",4
"Liked the two time frames but it was a little confusing at times . Overall it was a good book with timeless themes . ",2
"The book gives a different picture of what goes on behind the performance . Some parts are very hard to shallow and hope they were n't remotely accurate . ",2
"Combine research into the American train circus a prose style that is about as sophisticated and threatening as Velveeta cheese utterly onedimensional characters and a storyline that does move steadily along and what do you get ? A bestseller . ",1
"Sometimes a one line summary that says very little can be rather enticing . For me this is the case for WATER FOR ELEPHANTS . THE NEW YORK TIMES bestseller list summarizes the book by saying A young man and en elephant save a Depression era circus . It made me want to purchase the book just to see how it happens . One could argue as to whether the one sentence summary is an apt description of the book but whether a reader agrees with the summary or not most will agree that WATER FOR ELEPHANTS turns out to be a novel well worth exploring.The book tells the story of Jacob Janowski a young man with a promising career ahead of his as a partner in his father 's veterinary practice . Jacob looses everything upon the accidental and sudden death of his parents . Not sure of how to proceed Jacob decides not to take his veterinary exams and wanders . He finds himself on a train and before he knows it he 's put to work . He soon discovers he 's now a member of the crew with the Benzini Brothers ' Circus a rag tag outfit that claims to be The Most Spectacular Show on Earth and has a true hatred for the far superior Greatest Show on Earth Ringling Brothers . His credentials are soon discovered and the circus owner sees that his medical skills are put to good use . As he travels from town to town he gets involved in the inner workings of the circus falls in love and develops a number of friendships both with circus members and the animals most notably Camel a man severe alcoholic WalterKinko a performer the lovely Marlena and her husband August as well as a chimp named Bobo and an elephant named Rosie.The book is more than a story about a young man who runs away with the circus . When we meet Jacob he 's not a young man . He 's in his nineties and living in a nursing home . His body is failing but his mind is sharp but few people notice because it 's assumed by many of the staff of the nursing home he 's like the other patients most of whom have Alzheimer 's or some form of dementia . He 's lonely and knows that no one would understand or believe his story.Juxtaposing the older Jacob with the story itself is where we see author Sara Gruen 's gifts as a writer . Her telling of the young Jacob 's adventures is storytelling at its best . We feel as if we 're traveling with the Benzini Brothers ' circus and the situations that occur and the people who populate the story are real . Yet we also feel for the older Jacob a man who is truly trapped perhaps with the best of intentions by who love him but none the less trapped . Readers do become emotionally involved in so many sections of the book . You almost want to find out where this nursing home is go and visit Jacob take him out for dinner and drinks and make him tell the story . He 's that memorable a character.The hardcover version of this book did well and the paperback version seems to be following suit . No doubt it will be a favorite for book clubs across the country and no doubt it will move readers for years to come . While it may be clich & eacute to say so this is a book that will not easily be forgotten . ",4
"I loved it ! The cast of characters and the details ..awesome . I could almost hear the circus music and see the animals . I give this book five stars and recommend it to anyone who loves animals and loves a good old story . ",4
"I had heard mixed reviews about both the book and the movie and was a little wary of both but when prime gave a free month subscription I figured it was worth at least trying the book . I loved it ! I found it to be very witty I absolutely fell in love with the 93 year old Jacob and the historial aspect was very interesting I never knew the history of the circus before reading this or what a great competivie market it was back in its hayday ! I will never look at the workers of a traveling show the same way again . I thought the book was a little slow paced for my taste but well worth it . I even went ahead and watched the movie and found the book to be far more superior in context . Great read ! ",4
"This book held my attention from the start with wonderful characters and an engrossing story . Grim at times but probably true for the time . ",3
"I loved this book . Regardless of what others have said about the authors writing she did fabulous . Great story line great characters . A little graphic is some scenes but wonderfully written . Ca n't wait to watch the movie even though I know it wo n't be as good . ",4
"Water for ElephantsBy Sara GruenIn the experience of this reviewer romantic books of any kind are generally written for those with a sentimental heart and a genre that I try to avoid . Who does n't like a good love story now and again but the modern romantic drama or comedy seems to be written for a specific audience . Without trying to be presumptuous or overly sexist modern romances are a genre mainly written by women for women . So when Water for Elephants was suggested and then selected to be read by the Super Cool Facebook Readers Club I assumed it was a book that was written for the opposite sex and one I would find hard to enjoy . But as it is warned so often not to make assumptions and hardly ever heeded I found that my assumptions about Water for Elephants were incorrect . Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen a bestselling author and book is a romantic drama that can be enjoyed by all readers.Water for Elephants is a story about an aged man Jacob Jankowski who we discover in a nursing home and through his memories we are taken on a dark and romantic journey to his youth as a veterinarian in a traveling circus . Jacobs past comes rushing to the front of his mind when a circus arrives and sets up next to the nursing home he resides in . In Water for Elephants the reader gets to experience a forbidden love between Jacob and one of the star performers of the Benzini Brothers circus Marlena . The whirl wind romance between Jacob and Marlena is both suicidal and heart melting . The reader also gets a good dose of violence and sexual content as the traveling circus life during the depression era of the 1930 's is unfolded for us in dramatic fashion by Sara Gruen in Water for Elephants . Add in an elephant who understands only the Polish language a masturbating midget and his dog Queenie and an untold number of corrupt acts and you will discover why Water for Elephants is a romantic story that can be enjoyed by just about any one.Although the idea of a nursing home has been used by other authors as the stage for telling a tale about ones past it does not hinder the story . Sara 's creative writing abilities and her knowledge about all things circus keep the nursing home in the background of the readers mind until the very end . And if there is anything that could be considered a hindrance to the book it might be the end itself . The end of the story where Jacob 90 years young rides off into the sunset with the traveling circus that was set up next to his nursing home creates more questions than can be answered by the novel.All things considered Water for Elephants is a well written novel by Sara Gruen . The work of literature has the ability to capture the attention of both men and women . Water for Elephants is a unique romantic drama that will capture your attention with heart melting romance intense episodes of violence graphically detailed sexual acts and a traveling circus . Water for Elephants is an unforgettable and exciting novel that will have you talking about it long after you have read it.written on 7102011 by the administrator of the Super Cool Facebook Readers Club based loosely on the discussions held by the club about the novel Water for Elephants . ",3
"I did not find this book as good as other readers . I would not have read it if it did n't get the great reviews . T was disappointing . The love story and some of the historic events of the circus were interesting . found the descriptive animal abuse very upsetting . I 'm definitely not interested in seeing the movie . ",1
"Love reading historical fiction that has been researched . Amazing . I would recommend to my adult friends that love to read the same ",3
"Circus life is hard . I was very happy with the book and the movie that came after . They kept to the book for the most part . Very enjoyable ",4
"The story is unique and mesmorizing . Though some parts are uncomfortable and heartbreaking this author brings you through the misery with an assurance of better things ahead . Ms. Gruen truly has a gift . I look forward to reading more from her in the future . ",4
"Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen is a gripping story filled with both the sadness and the joy of life . Hope and regret thread through the pages gripping the reader in a heartrending but mesmerizing journey . Filled with characters struggling to choose right over wrong as well as those who are selfish and greedy the reader will alternately lament their choices feel their pain sympathize with their struggles and cheer their successes . Animal lovers beware there are some fairly graphic depictions of the way circus animals have been treated over the years . Gruen 's unapologetic descriptions of circus life for all involved the workers the performers and the animals strips away the romanticized idea that running away with the circus could ever be the answers to one 's troubles in life . All the while Water for Elephants also grounds us in the reality of aging and reminds us that perhaps we should listen a little and do a little less . Gruen 's writing immerses the reader in a world so real the reader feels compelled to remind one 's self it 's fiction . ",3
"Water For Elephants follows Jacob Jankowski who is either 90 or 93 he ca n't remember as he reminisces about his days during the most trying time in his life . He was about to graduate from Cornell with his degree in veterinary medicine when he gets word that both of his parents have died . Not only that but he finds out that because of the economy during the great depression his father 's veterinary business was so far under that their house is taken and the business is gone . He has nothing left but to take his final exam and somehow start a new life completely on his own . In the middle of his exam he breaks down runs away and hops a train out of town but it 's not just any train it ends up being a circus train for the Benzini Bros circus and they do n't like stowaways . This begins a roller coaster ride that will last 3 12 months with a crash course in taking care of large animals understanding business befriending a grouchy midget and learning what love truly is.Passion hatred murder and even a wild animal stampede add to the delight I found in this book . We see glimpses of the 93 yr old Jacob living in a nursing home feeling helpless followed by wonderful tales of his life on the circus train with Rosie Walter and the lovely Marlena . I found it to be extremely well written and it flowed nicely always making you want to read on and see what will happen . Sara Gruen did a great job of switching back and forth between young and old Jacob and keeping the story just as interesting while in either time . I was just as attached to and invested in 93 yr old Jacob as I was in the young handsome veterinarian with morals and principles from Benzini Bros Circus of 1931.I definitely recommend this book and will probably read it again once I make it through my summer TBR list . ",3
"This was one of my favorite readings . It is well written humorous and clever and never left me with the feeling of wanting more . Each section that was written in the present had me eagerly anticipating getting back to the past to find out what happened next and the ending was exactly as it should have been ! ",4
"I liked the book by all means and it is a good quick read . I guess it did n't grab me like it did others though . The circus theme was a bonus and very different . ",2
"Great story with colorful characters . The author obviously did her research . It was great to see some of the pictures I remember from a childhood visit to Sarasota . ",3
"i totally do n't understand why so many people loved this book . i earnestly tried to read it the whole way through but could n't . the main character is completely unbelievable and the dialogue is terrible i find it hard to believe people spoke that way in the year this novel took place . the prose in this book had zero imagination . when i read books like this i feel like the author is more interested in finishing than developing the work.the litany of things i hated about this book would take all day to write . i suppose if you were ever interested in read this tripe go for it as it seems like tons of people loved it . i hated Water for Elephants however . ",0
"This was one of the better books I 've read on Kindle ! It was funny sad brutal mean and funny again ! It is told through the eyes of a 90 or 93 year old former circus employee . He just ca n't remember how old he is at the time he is telling the story.After living through tragedy after tragedy while growing up he finally finds himself befriended by a travelling circus crew who convinces him to tag along . He does so and ends up caring for the animals as a veternarian even though he has n't yet set for his final exams . However he did attend a pretty good school so who cares about a piece of paper ? Once there the story of a love affair and friendships developed and life as a carny takes you through some pretty rough territory before it ends in such a way it leaves you laughing again at the very end ! including a little tear in the eye as wellWell written and well researched . ",4
"I could n't wait to read this book and I was certainly not disappointed ! It was extraordinary and wonderful . I could n't stop reading it . The characters just about leapt off the page with their intensity . I loved it so much ! The movie could n't do it justice after reading the book . ",4
"Very good book I totally enjoyed it . I would highly recommend it to anyone looking for a great book to read . ",4
"This book was out of this world . We have a story that goes back and forth between past and present sometimes a present that he ca n't remember much of . Our hero is twentythree and almost ready to take his final exam when he receives word that both of his parents were in a car accident and have passed away . Leaving no money and feeling desperate Jacob jumps on a moving train . Having no idea he has jumped on a circus train he decides he has nothing left and starts working with the circus.He meets a beautiful woman but finds out quickly she is married to a madman . However she returns the attraction and we have a great love story combined with their love of animals . This story was so rich with character details I just could n't put it down.When the book starts it made me think Marlena brought the stake down on August 's head but that is n't the case . Just wait till you find out who did ! What a book . Took my breath away with a great story line . A true weaver of stories thank you Ms. Gruen . ",4
"Dreadful . Judging from the first paragraph this novel had the potential for being absorbing and a good holiday read . I was soon only making my way through it because I had nothing else to read and I kept thinking it must get better since it came highly recommended . If only I had had something better than this time waster lazy plot that never seemed to go anywhere because it went in too many irrelevant directions little firsthand knowledge of the circus lowlevel vocabulary . A waste of time on a good topic . ",0
"I enjoyed reading this book . It kept my interest and I learned about the world of the traveling circus . I had no knowledge of this world . It was a very hard life for these people . Working so hard day in and day out and not getting paid . I knew elephants were very smart animals but Rosie was wonderful . I liked her spunk . I thought the story going back and forth from the present to the past kept the book interesting . ",4
"A friend recommended this book for me . I got the sample yesterday morning for my kindle and bought the remainder soon after and finished it today . What a great book . So refreshing . ",4
"a very enjoyable story . the characters were colorful and the writing really captured the circus carnival atmosphere behind the scenes . ",3
"A hard book to put down . Enjoyed every single minute of it . If you are an animal lover of any kind you will enjoy . ",4
"I loved Water for Elephants . Author Sara Gruen managed to place herself in the head of both a ninetyyearold man with Alzheimers in a nursing home and a twentythreeyearold man who had a great life ahead of him until tragedy struck . She swung back and forth between the character 's present drab life to the unpredictable depression era circus of his youth so naturally that I was amazed how often I forgot I was reading a book . I was so entranced by the scenery and story that it just flowed along like I was watching it or more accurately living it with the characters . It 's not often storytellers do this good a job in our generation . I have recommended this book to many people . Gruen is a writer to watch . ",4
"There is not much more I can add to the numerous reviews this book has already received except to say that I loved the book and thought that it was for the most part an original story and was very pleased with how the story progressed and ended.As original as the story was I did find that there were some predictable plot points but these did n't detract from the story in any way . Also I believe that I read another review in which the reviewer indicated that this was more of a book for kids and preteens . While I do n't agree with that I do think that written a slightly different way taking out the minor sexual content that yes this could have been a very good book for kids . Nothing wrong with that . I 'll give this one a 4 12 star rating . ",3
"In her excellent novel Water for Elephants one can see how much time and effort Sara Gruen put in to recreating what it was like to work for a travelling circus during the depression . There is no romantic vision here conditions for workers and animals alike were harsh and even brutal . Workers and stage performers were at the mercies of greedy owners and managers whose only concern was profit . If workers were n't needed they might even be tossed off the circus train at night . And the animals were treated even worse . Jacob the main character finds he ca n't finish veterinary school due to certain tragic events and takes a job in a travelling circus where he 's treated somewhat better than the average worker because of his healing skills . But he falls in love with the wrong woman and begins to fear for his own life . Fortunately for him there are coworkers who though mistreated still have that spark of humanitarianism remaining.Water for Elephants is a riveting story that does not shy away from acts of brutality . However I did have two quibbles with the book . First the realization that the elephant who quickly becomes the star of the circus possesses a rather extraordinary knowledge of a foreign language as opposed to English seemed a bit hackneyed to me . Second there was too much of a disconnect between the easygoing humane young Jacob and the old bitter nursing home resident that he became . Even though Jacob experienced the horrors described so vividly in the book obviously the circus got into his blood and he seemed to have led a relatively happy and comfortable life afterwards . Why then did he become so bitter and unhappy ? It was as if the author forgot to write a bridge between young and old Jacob . Even so Gruen has written a remarkable book that will be on many must read lists for years to come . ",3
"This novel is really interesting in that it explores the world of circus performers in the post depression era of the U.S . The details are amazing and it is obvious the author took great care to create an authentic feel for the time period and life of circus performers . A passionate love story is revealed that will capture your heart . The reflections of an old man in the story tie it all together with wonderful sensitivity and charm . I thought the title was really creative . I became immersed in the circus world with ease while enjoying this engaging novel . ",3
"Ok so I admit . I did watch the movie first but this book is AMAZING ! Way better then the movie . I had a very hard time putting this one down . Also there was so much more in the Book then the movie . It makes me wish that the movie had reflected more of the book then it had . ",4
"I love when you open a book and start reading and you visualize yourself right there . Not only do you see things you can smell the aromas in the air and you are stopped just short of touching . You stand there witnessing the events going on around you . You can not stop them you can not change them but you are feeling the feelings of everyone there . I did not want this book to end . This book had me emotional from the beginning to the end and even beyond . ",4
"I 'm not sure how to do this book justice except to say it is the first novel I 've read covertocover in a single day since my baby was born a year ago . Frankly I was n't sure it was even possible to read a book in a day with an infant in the house . But if the book is good enough and the nap schedule cooperates rest assured it can be done.Water for Elephants is told by the curmudgeonly Jacob Jankowski whose miserable monotony of mushy peas and callous nurses is interrupted when a traveling circus sets up outside his rest home . The sight launches him into a reverie of his postcollege days as a veterinarian in a depressionera circus . Gruen 's gritty visceral descriptions of circus life the downtrodden animals the sleazy side shows the glamour of the big top are matched only by her honest characters who are imminently lovable and hateable and her fascinating behindthescenes glimpse into what has been at one time or another a dream for most of usto run away and join the circus . ",4
"I made the rookie mistake of watching the movie before I read the novel . Read about it in my review of Water for Elephants ",3
"I had never heard of this book until I saw the trailer for the movie . My wife is the true reader of the family and wanted to read the book before seeing the movie in theaters . I downloaded it for her and found myself sitting around bored and started reading it myself . I was instantly hooked . The reason I was n't interested in it was because I thought it was a romance book . And I guess in a way it is . But for me it was more about a romance with the circus . Who does n't love the circus ? Especially the old train circuses . I spent the first several chapters totally oblivious to my surroundings as I read about Jacob and how this whole journey started for him . I loved the chapters devoted to him as an elderly man and how the author enveloped me into his frailty almost to the point that I felt like I was jerked away when the story switched back to his time at the circus . The characters are so colorful and the descriptive writing helped fuel my imagination of this world . My only minor complaint is that the story felt rushed towards the end . Everything wrapped up in a few quick chapters . Maybe it was just me not wanting to leave just yet but it just seemed too quick . I highly recommend this book and encourage other people men I 'm looking at you to not be put off by the cover with the stars of the movie on it and think it is a mushy romance novel . ",3
"I really enjoyed this book . I think that no matter what type of genre of books you 're into you 'll probably like this one . ",4
"This book was so fun to read ! The stories he tells takes you back to the circus as a kid yet it still has the love story and villians . I ca n't wait for the movie ! ",4
"I really enjoyed this book . If you 've ever attended a circus it makes you wonder about the lives of the performers and people behind the scenes . The main character is interesting and sometimes sad . However the ending is great ! ",4
"Although I was n't sure I 'd really care to read a book about the circus I was pleasantly surprised to get a bit of circus history . Although it is a first novel by this author the writing is captivating . It goes back and forth in time from the viewpoint of an elderly man in an assisted living facility and tells a story of his life on the road with the circus in postDepression years . Quite nice ending to the book also . ",3
"I loved this book . It has history suspense and a romance all in one ! ",4
"After recently completing a 750 page current best seller hardcover sleeping pill I needed something that was n't going to tax me too much . This fit the bill perfectly ! I escaped to the circus ! I had my doubts in the beginning when we are introduced to Jacob a 90 something he 's not sure anymore character in an assisted living facility . I braced myself for anxiety but that was unnecessary . What I was introduced to was a feisty gentleman telling his story about a journey of a fascinating period in a young man 's life . I never gave a single thought about train circuses of the past but have found an interest in them now.Jacob 's journey starts with how he unwittingly wound up with the traveling circus . It covers his duties of caring for the animals his friendships and his untouchable heart throb . Jacob may not be the most controversial character you will ever read about and does lack some spunk and fortitude but he 's a good guy in the story and you 'll be rooting for him from start to end.Some of the animal situations are disturbing but realize it was reality of the time . I am thankful there has been a good deal of enlightenment since then . The animals incidentally are a huge part of the story and I found them every bit as interesting if not more so than the human characters.This was a well researched well written look at a bizarre lifestyle . My biggest complaint is I kept wishing there was some type of lexicon or glossary because I did not have a good understanding of some the jargon and the terms were n't described well enough . With some effort I guess I was able to put it together enough to have a vague understanding of the situation but it was a distraction for me . Other than that the book kept me entertained through the final page . Escape to the circus and enjoy ! ",3
"I did n't feel any of the connection between the characters in this story . It seemed like an escape from their present situation more than true love . ",1
"My previous review disappeared and even though it 's been years since I read this garbage I 'm still so angry about the time and money wasted I feel I must add my voice back into the mix . I do remember being taken aback by brazen antisemitism that only one other reviewer referenced . I agree with every other 1 star reviewer and I tried to figure out how to give it 0 stars ",0
"Great book ! Never read a book like this before but it really brings to life the train traveling circus experience from an insider 's 'learn as you go ' POV during the Depression era . There is such an ominous feel throughout the entire book that I never expected an ending as such I actually thought it would be more depressing but I 'm not disappointed . ",4
"You can also read my review here WOW ! This book has been sitting on my bookshelf for longer than I care to admit . Something about it drew me in enough to buy it but there always seemed to be something else that I would rather be reading so it sat and sat and sat . I am so glad that I finally challenged myself to read it because it has to be one of my favourite books in a LOOOOOOONG time . What a great story.While I know that the book is a work of fiction it really did feel like I was right there in the circus with Jacob Marlena and August . I could see each of them and of course Jacob was as yummy as Edward ~Robert Pattinson~ I could touch the animals hear the music and feel the crunch of the peanuts beneath my feet . I loved that each of the chapters started with a picture showing the history of the circus because it brought me to the right time frame in my mind . The movement between Jacob as a 90 or 93 year old in a nursing home and Jacob as a man in his early 20 's were seemless . In some novels past the 'current ' story seemed forced and very out of place but here it was a welcome part of the story.Overall I feel like this is a book that anyone would enjoy . Whether you are an adult a child a tween a senior this book will delight you ! It is a fast fun read . Please pick it up and spend some time aboard the train with the 'Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth ' . ",4
"Certainly there 's a spark of magic at the circus . We felt the under vibes that freely flowed in our youthful visits to the show . In a generation that had various cartoon animals create the circus for our amusement we knew there was meore to the real ways circuses magically came together for that one night.Go on a journey to the real circus.Am so excited that this was on kindle lending . Huzzah to the writer for taking us to the real show ! ! ! ! ! ! ",4
"This was a great book ! Once I started reading itI could not stop ! The story is so interesting especially for those my age in the twenties . SadlyI feel as though there are not as many circuses out there so learning about the circus life was pretty neat ! I also really liked the flashbacks from current times to the circus times . Great story ! ",4
"I enjoyed this book so much . So much in fact I was sad when it was over . Definitely worth the money . ",4
"Presented through a series of flashbacks by a cantankerous nursing home patient the story begins as Jacob Jankowski is confronted with the death of his parents . Hastily he drops out of school and flees to the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth . After a fair amount of drama Jacob is offered a position as vet with the traveling circus . What follows is well a circus especially when Rosie shuffles into townHonestly we could go either way on this novel . For some reason we are drawn to the enchantment of the circus so the setting was interesting enough to keep our attention . We thought the novel captured the spirit of the traveling circus and pulled the curtain on some of the more sleazy aspects of the business . The treatment of the animals was at times appalling as was the practice of chucking circus workers from moving trains.In many ways the characters were almost as entertaining as the circus . Jacob was complex and real . The lovely Marlena was just as intriguing and provocative in real life as she was in her animal act . The head animal trainer was pretty much a complete jerkbag throughout . Rosie the Elephant was incredibly enduring and a formidable animal character . And the bearded lady yeesh.So why did n't we love this book ? We 're not sure . It just felt like something was missing . Maybe there was too much bitterness and anger in the narrator or maybe the relationship between Jacob and Marlena could have been developed more or maybe a high flying monkey act should have been incorporated into the performance . Whatever the case Water for Elephants was a good book but not great and definitely not in our top 10 for 2011 . Finally with Christmas right around the corner can we please have a ginormous protective and lovable elephant for Christmas ? You can keep the hippopotamus ! ",2
"This book is one of the best books I have ever read ! I would recommend this book to everyone and have already passed it on to my Mother who also LOVED it ! ! This is one of those books that stick with you and even when you 've moved onto other books you 'll find yourself thinking about it still . I will NEVER look at an elephant or a circus in the same way . I laughed and cried several times and just ca n't say enough good things about this book . It is one of those books that I do n't think I will ever forget it touched me very deeply . ",4
"I was really surprised how much I enjoyed this book . From the opening line on Chapter 1 all the way to the end you are hooked.A young veterinary student loses is parents tragically during the time of the depression . After having his family house repossesed by the bank and no prospects he winds up working in a circus.As stated in other reviews there are some shaky transitions and predictable plot points . But there is a sincerity to the book that works and unique setting that makes one easily forgive the story 's few shortcomings.And it 's the setting that I really liked about this book . It brings back the circus of old and it made me miss it . The smell of animals and hay . The popcorn and cotton candy . The acrobats with the sequined vests . You get a wonderful behind the scenes insight to a peice of nostalgic Americana . Combined with classic dramatic elements and a motley cast of characters this is a great book and I 'm glad I got it . ",4
"This is by far one of the most entertaining stories I have read in a long time . I was unable to put this book down from the very beginning . The author places the reader into 1931 on the train with Kinko Camel and Jacob . I highly recommend this book . ",4
"A believable rendetion of a time gone by . Kept me reading late into the night . Thanks for such a enjoyable read . ",4
"I read this for book club and I think it was a great choice for that environment . The book itself was a very entertaining read and I was really able to connect with the main character . I thought that mixing the stories of the elderly and young Jacob was a very clever way to enhance his character . There were parts where I laughed out loud and parts where I teared up . And just when I was losing hope for a happy ending the little plot twist wrapped the book up perfectly.The reason that I 'm giving this 4 stars instead of 5 is because there was nothing in this book that blew me away whether it be the plot or the writing style . In addition I felt like Marlena was a bit too one dimensional . I was never really able to feel connected to her as a character or the love story between the two of them . That said it is definitely worth reading and was a great choice for book club . Everyone liked the book and it naturally lends itself to discussion without needing to have an overly structured approach . ",3
"First off the imagery in this book is amazing . The pictures painted by words are so vivid that I felt like I was watching the action on screen.The story is set in the 1930s and follows Jacob Jankowski a vetrinary school dropout and the few months he spends working for a circus Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show On Earth . Jacob is exposed to the harsh lifestyle of a travelling circus . He meets Marlena who is a performer and falls in love . The only problem is that she is already married to August the equestrian director who hired Jacob in the first place.The central element of the book however is the circus itself . The reader gets a look into the inner workings of show the characters that work for it and this is done in a very dextrous way . Gruen makes the reader understand the technicalities of circus terminology and life without spelling out definitions . Her insight into the characters with a few exceptions is also very interesting . I found the beginning part of the book fascinating as the 90 or 93 year old Jankowski reflects on how things change with age.The criticism I have is that certain charcters are somewhat faceless . I found this to be true of Marlena . This makes her relationship with Jacob seem contrived and their interactions cliched . The dialogue between them towards the end is predictable . Also the character of August I felt could have been better developed.Overall this is a fine book and I had fun reading it . ",3
"Predictable read . Better that nothing but would not recommend to anyone who seeks adventure in a book . Rather boring . Sorry ",2
"What makes a book alluring to you ? If you 're like most of us looking for a great read you 'll find Water for Elephants has what you need a unique backdrop moving plot alluring characters and ca n't put it down feel . A rare find . ",4
"This book is well written well researched and overall an interesting story . That said without a doubt I would have closed it and never finished it due to the abuse of the animals but I read until the end it because it was a book club choice . This is not a book for animal lovers and I found it to be incredibly painful . Those who torture animals are the scum of the earth in my opinion and I do n't enjoy reading about them . Nothing personal Sara Gruen you are a good writer . ",2
"I 'm not a regular fiction reader but decided to get this one on my Kindle . I could hardly put it down once I started . Author weaves a compelling story involving life in the 30 's animal abuse circus life and growing old . I recommend highly . ",4
"I wo n't give away too much information but my take on this after reading it was that we are exposed to some wonderful characters an interesting albeit a bit slow plotline a romance and a themes prevalent to me are that true love will survive animals have feelings too never say never life is cyclical circular and we are never to old to do anything.A beautiful story brought me to tears once or twice . ",3
"I decided to read this book solely based on the fact that it was recommend by Amazon under the Customers who bought this item also bought section on just about every book that I 've read this summer . I did n't know what to expect since I had n't read any reviews about it so I picked it up and was not disappointed . I hate looking at other people 's reviews before I read a book since they all give away so much of the plot and that irritates me . I like to discover what 's going to happen on my own and I detest spoilers . In the end I 'm glad I took Amazon 's advice because what I ended up with was a very accessible and entertaining story.I 'm not saying this book is perfect by any means . I actually debated over whether to give it 4 or 5 stars and I ended up going with 5 based almost exclusively on the fact that it was just such a unique and entertaining story . The author Sara Gruen colorfully illustrates the world of Depression Era circus life while weaving in a distinctive coming of age type story even if it 's a little late in life for the main character Jacob . Coming of age does n't always have to mean teenage years and in fact can be about any time in a person 's life where their life path drastically changes direction . This is absolutely the case for Jacob as he endures a huge devastating crisis that leads him to essentially run away with the circus in his early twentiessomething kids across the country and all through the years have dreamed about on particularly hard days when things were just not going quite right for them . However this particular circus in those particular times did not exactly embody the romantic idea of escaping the harsh reality of the real world and in fact the result of Jacob 's decision landed him in more trouble and heartache than he probably ever thought he 'd encounter in his life.I think what I enjoyed most about this particular novel is that I actually learned a lot from it as well as was entertained by it . I do n't know about you but I did n't know too much about circus life in early 1900 's America and I always find facts about the Depression and Prohibition life really interesting . Gruen incorporates a lot of circus and era terminology into the prose and even weaves a few true stories into the plot . Most interestingly she includes amazing real photos of circus life at the beginning of most of the chapters . Between those visual aids and all the beautiful details in the writing I could really picture everything from the sequined costumes the performers wore to the strangest freaks in the side show attraction to the inhumane treatment the roustabouts and animals had to endure to make the whole thing work . How ironic that they all had to suffer through such a harsh and unforgiving life to bring such a glitzy fun and carefree show to a different town nearly every night during a horrible time in America 's history where people desperately needed that kind of distraction in their harsh and unforgiving lives.I saw on one of the discussion forums about this novel that it has been optioned for a feature film and I am very excited to hear it . I read a lot of books and I love it when I 'm getting into one and I can just start to SEE it in my mind . I start casting it and think about which director would bring the best vision of it to the screen . I really hope that whoever ends up making it does it justice . There 's so much potential to bring this to life using an exquisite color and texture palette and I also hope that the studio does n't compromise the author 's vision of this world by watering it down do appeal to a broader audience . I can just see some ridiculous exec somewhere taking out characters and situations that are n't P.C . so as not to offend Middle America in order to raise ticket sales . That kind of censorship makes me sick and is exactly why so many good novels are turned into crappy movies nowadays.Without giving too much away I 'd just have to recommend this novel to anyone who 's looking for an easy historical fiction read with a good gripping story . There are times when you 'll laugh times when you 'll feel uneasy times you 'll be sad and times when you 'll be outraged . If you have serious problems with violence against humans and especially animals you might want to think twice about reading this . Gruen states in the back of the book that she did extensive research to include many accurate portrayals of Depression Era circus life and that means that often times things were n't pretty behind the scenes . There is also a fair amount of crude language and a few depictions of graphic sexual situations . If this were a film it would most likely have an R rating for language sexual situations alcohol abuse and most especially violence . However I like my stuff gritty and realistic so it worked for me . ",4
"Vivid descriptions transport you to the front row of the circus . I loved this book . Light reading yet colorful in detail . Everyone I know who has read it loved it . ",4
"Water for Elephants was probably one of the most actionfilled novels that I have read . Every chapter was vital . The circus or carnival life was a new area for me . It was grimy brutal and had some of society 's misfits yet there was humanityloyalty and tendernesstoo thank goodness . I felt it was a wellresearched and crafted story . ",3
"After reading both of Khaled Hosseini 's astonishing books I worried what next read would hold its own after that . Water for Elephants was an excellent choice unable to put it down I read it in two days ! Gruen did her research even tells you about the book 's research background at the back I learned about the circus during the 1930 's and enjoyed a believable clever and ultimately triumphant story . ",4
"I was hesitant to read this book since it felt like everyone I knew who raved about it was a middleaged lady and I did n't think it 'd have enough action to keep my attention . To my pleasant surprise the writing was just brash enough to make me want to keep reading often laughing out loud at the bizarre pseudoautobiography . I recommend it as a quick easy summer read . Yes a bit on the chicklit side of the spectrum but very good just the same . ",4
"This was a gift to my 92 year old father for his new Kindle . He loved it & could relate because it was about an old guy reminissing & so many things were happening that it it kept him very interested . He read it in 2 or 3 days . ",4
"Started off very slow hard to get into the book . Kept persevering and it got better and when I finished found i could have kept reading it . ",3
"The title does not come close in describing the book . I did not expect to be reading a book I could not put down . It was sad yet it was filled with hope . I was cheering the characters onwhen they met with some negativity in their lives . I could place my self in this book and ride along in the train . I loved then ending it was better than I thought it would be . Great book easy read . Thank you ",4
"Really a good book . I had to read it after I had saw the movie . The movie was good . The book was even better . ",4
"If you prefer to read books that are hard to put down Water for Elephants us for you ! The love interests the humane treatment of the elephant and the insider look of what it 's like to be part of a circus are very intriguing ! ",4
"I really wanted to like this book.And I did enjoy the circus parts.But part of the book was told from the perspective of the main character as a nursing home patient . That part was a real downer.It gave me the same feeling as reading Julie and Julia . ",2
"I kept seeing my grandmother in this story not in the experiences but the frustration with her body failing to last as long as her mind . She has all the spunk and none of the ability . She questioned the care and cost as she was struggling to survive a health scare recently . The wisdom that comes with old age is now often disregarded due to the loss of physical ability ",3
"I loved Water For Elephants . I loved how the story was told in flashbacks and dreamsequences . Jacob Jankowski is a ninteysomething year old man who has been abandoned by his family in a retirement home . One day Jacob sees a circus come to town through the windows in his retirement home . This circus coming to town forces his aging and forgetting mind to remember a time in his life when he had lost everything and ran away to escape it . He ends up jumping onto a circus train and joining the Benzini Brothers as the circus doctor . On his journey he meets many friends and enemies . The story then alternately goes from present day to depressionera 1930s . While he is working for the circus the ringleader Uncle Al picks up an elephant from another circus who has just gone broke . I absolutely adore the relationship that forms between Jacob and Rosie the elephant . Anyone who knows me knows how deeply I care about animals . To see this character stand up and take such responsibility for an elephant in the 1930s was nothing short of heartwarming . This is a book that I recommend . This is a book that I was able to breeze through and I was so sad when I turned to the last page . Speaking of the last page I adored the ending of this book . It was uplifting and it told me that no matter how old you are you still have room and time to continue chasing your dreams.Something that I noticed at one point in the book was how parallel Jacob 's geriatric life was to Rosie 's circus life . There was one quote in particular that I wanted to recall but it was a library book so I did n't dare mark in it and I returned it prior to writing this . It had something to do with Jacob being friendless in his nursinghome cage being poked and prodded . The quote that I selected to open the post with also shows that relationship . This was said to Jacob by Rosemary the nurse . However this could be also said to the awful August who continually expects Rosie to do the tricks that he wants without giving her any indication whatsoever what those tricks are . I 'm sure that with a second reading I could pick up on many other things as well.As I was reading about the book online a lot of people had made comparisons to the HBO series Carivale which I never saw . I 'm not sure that I could . I found several of the scenes of animal violence hard to read . One scene in particular still haunts me . In this scene two horses throats are slashed very violently.I am intrigued to see what this time period in the circus did look like which is why I am excited for the movie to be released . I am so excited for Hal Holbrook to be the olde Jacob character and I 'm a big fan of Reese Witherspoon however I do not quite agree with Robert Pattinson being cast as a young Jacob . When I read it I imagined more of a James Franco character . However perhaps R.Patz can step out of his brooding Eddie the Vampire mode and do an excellent job . We shall seeThis review was originally published at bookjackets.wordpress.com ",4
"I simply do n't understand the fanfare . Every bit of this story was heartbreaking . The animal abuse especially Rosie the human abuse Walter and Camel especially and all of the heartbreaking things that happened at the hands of certain men . What was there to enjoy about this story ? Revenge at the end ? Ok so I liked the last 3 pages . But those last 3 pages did n't make up for my sadness throughout the whole of this book . I wish I had n't read it . ",1
"If you ever read circus books when you were a kid you 'd enjoy this one well even if you did not you may still enjoy this book . The meticulous research on the book results in an interesting panorama of circus life where class divisions i.e . performers do n't sit with the roustabouts clowns do n't share their train car with others etc . eventually lead to internecine warfare at the end of the book . There is also jealousy a threeway love triangle prohibition and oh yes animal husbandry and abuse . The picture the book paints of a prohibitionera circus train is vivid smuggled moonshine from Canada various misfits that magically come together during under the big top the behindthebarn striptease shows that went on in such circuses funny no one told me about that part when I was a kid reading about circus books ! The namesake of the book is Rosie the elephant that apparently only understands Polish . Until that little nugget is unearthed Rosie regularly receives the brutal end of a bullhook . The only person between the bullhook and Rosie is the protagonist Jacob Jankowski who suddenly finds himself ripped from an Ivy League university to a circus train when his parents die in an accident . Fortunately Jacob was studying to be a veterinarian and was only one examination shy of a degree . But that does not matter to Uncle Al the reprehensible circus owner who never saw the back of a head he could not hit . The book has a 98year old Jacob in contemporary settings reminiscing about his early life in the circus . Jacob 's escape back to a circus towards the end was a bit preposterous I must admit . But besides that the book makes for a very interesting reading . ",4
"This was one of the most memorable novels I have read in the last few years.The narrator Jacob is ninety or ninetythree and lives in a nursing home . The arrival of the circus next store leads him to reflect on his experiences working on a circus during the depression . I have never been to the circus but Gruen makes the days when the circus was still a big event come to life.Several things make this story stand out . First instead of the usual format where the elderly person only appears to introduce a flashback in Water For Elephants the story alternates between Jacob 's present life in the nursing home and his life as a young man in the circus . In the audio version there are separate narrators for the younger Jacob and the older Jacob . This makes it easy to tell where you are and adds to the realism.At first I found myself wanting to get out of the nursing home and back to the circus but by the end I cared as much about what was going to happen to the elderly Jacob and I did about learning the secret of his past . Even so I thought the writing about the circus was especially powerful . Gruen 's ability to evoke the world of the depressionera circus reminded me of Ann Rice 's ability to make me feel that I am in New Orleans . She puts you in the menagerie with the animals and Rosie the elephant is a character you wo n't soon forget.Finally there is a surprise at the end which leaves you feeling happier than you expected.This is a relatively short book that I think anyone who loves animals will enjoy . ",3
"I really enjoyed reading this book and would recommend it . It is an interesting story about life in the circus circuit and its hardships . I found it to be very interesting . ",4
"What a wonderfully written book . The research and details are amazing . It really leaves you feeling like you 've gotten a peek into the life of a traveling circus . ",4
"I 'm going to be short and sweet about this book . It 's wonderful . I could n't put it down . It 's one of the best enjoyable reads I 've had in a long while . ",4
"The only complaint I have about this wonderful book is that it ended too quickly . It was full of intensely interesting characters who had real depth and texture . I felt that I was part of the story and it was a real pleasure to read this great book . Amazing ending . I loved every page . ",3
"I began reading this book and could n't put it down . The characters lept from the page as I imagined every scene in technicolor . I will look for other books by this author because she knows how to put pen to paper ! ",4
"Unusual subject matter enlightened me about a topic I knew nothing about . The characters sprang to life in an era when the circus travelled by train and the lives of the performers were creative in their means of existance . Hard and cruel tender and loving I fell in love with the characters including the elephants ! A great read . ",4
"I absolutely loved this book . I do n't often read a book more than once but I read this one two times ! ",4
"I loved this book . I am 59 years old yet which is a constant surprise to me . I can SO identify with a 93 year old who still is young inside . This book has definitely made me rethink how we treat the elderly . ",4
"This is a great vacation read . The book is engaging and easy to read . The author has paralleled the story of Jacob into a depression era love and life story that takes place in a circus . In Water For Elephants Jacob steals the love of another man 's wife . The man is cruel and probably mentally ill. Jacob 's heartrending moral dilemma over his love for Marlena amid all the circus characters and their individual tales forms the struggle in the novel . While the novel is character driven it has plenty of action . I agree with another reviewer that this book would make a good movie . I gave this 4.5 stars . It is good not great literature . ",4
"Wonderful novel about the circus circa 1930 's . Gruen is a great storyteller . Heartfelt funny and a real page turner . Highly recommended . ",4
"I really enjoyed this book . One of my all time favorites . After reading it I became interested in circus carnival documentaries . I entertained myself with this subject for about 3 months . True carny people really love the life . Fascinating . ",4
"This is such a great story ! Made me want to join Jacob & run away with the circus ! The characters are so real ! I could not put it down and I would recommend this book to anyone . ",4
"I 'd rather not try to pick thru profanity to get to a story.If it was n't so vulgar it might have been a good book . ",1
"I really enjoyed this book . It was a departure from other books I 've been reading and I enjoyed it so much . It was interesting to read how circuses were run behind the scenes and how people got involved in them . The story was very compelling and I loved the ending ! ",4
"My daughter got me to read this book . I was n't too sure I would like it . But to my surprise once I started it I could n't put the book down . I was on the plane flying back home and I was reading the book and crying . When I met my husband he said you must have been reading a good book as your eyes are red . And I started telling him what I read and I cried AGAIN . Loved the book.Wanda ",4
"This book by Ms. Gruen is truly wonderful literature not simply a story . The story is wonderful but the methods she uses to weave the human existance into it is simply breathtaking . If you do not like to cry after reading a book I recommend you avoid it . The bittersweet human connection in this book is outstanding and she has truly captured circus life in the depression years as no other book has ever done . A truly wonderful read . ",4
"The title of this book attracted me the cover blurb sounded good and who can resist an elephant as a character in an adult book ? So even though I was not famliar with the author I bought this book and oh how glad I am that I did . What a magnificent read ! The characters are delightful . The author 's tone and pacing are fantastic as she seamlessly moves you from the present to the past never leaving you wanting at the end of either time period as she moves her story relentlessly forward . At the end of this book I had a strange and wonderful reaction . I actually hugged it to me and just sat there for a minute or so thinking about how good I felt and wondering what the main character might be doing now . ",4
"A 90+ gentleman sharp as a tack in a nursing home watches from the window as a circus comes to town . He takes us back in time to his own carny days as a veternarian for the circus animals . So far sounds boring as heck does n't it ? Well this is one old gent you come to really like . We learn a lot about the shenanigans behind the scenes of the circus as well as the plight of those during the depression . Again sounds boring . But this author makes it a story you ca n't put down . This is a testament to a great writer . I believe she could make the phone book interesting . JUST READ IT ! ! You wo n't be disappointed . ",4
"Fortunately I did n't pay full price for this book I borrowed it on my Kindle through my Prime membership.The author found some interesting true circus stories but wove them together poorly . The book read like a treatment for a screenplay in that it seemed less like a novel than an attempt to sell a script to Hollywood . The characters all sounded the same and the dialogue was too modern for the time period of the novel . I have not seen the movie but I think it would at least be visually interesting to distract from the plot . The love story is barely believable and the villains are archetypesyou 've seen them before.Not very deep but the animals are interesting . Much more so than the people . ",1
"I had no interest in reading this suprisingly beautiful book . The title was weird and I really had no interest in circuses or elephants in general . I picked it up when I had nothing else handy and could n't put it down . The descriptions of Jake 's old age slips and deterioration are priceless . They gave me a better understanding of why and how we get cranky as we age . Priceless ! The authors transition from his old age .. 90 93 ? Who cares What 's the difference ? is so descriptive and real . His passages through his aging and how his family sets him aside and forgets about him how his friends are long gone and most important he has lost his soul mate and loving wife after so many years . He says he has little to contribute to gatherings as no one is interested in his old stories . It 's heart wrenching . This book should be a must read not for the circus stories and they are priceless but for the insight into the art gift horror sadness delight and every other emotion of getting old and remembering a life of joy and sadness love and hate . The author has a very remarkable talent and Jake is a love . As for Rosie ? I now love elephants ! ",4
"Spellbinding novel . I found the story line kept you in suspense as well as wanting to read on and not put the book down . ",4
"This is one of those books you 'll want to share . Well written and very interesting as well as entertaining . ",4
"A friend loaned me this book and told me it was one of the best she 'd ever read . Then she said in a voice just above a whisper It 's about the circus.. To be honest that did n't intrigue me at all . But right from the start I was hooked and finished the book in two days then reread it a couple of days later to my husband . This is a book I will read over and over again just because of the beauty of the characters and the fascinating facts about the depressionera circus . ",4
"This book was for the most part far too sad . It was also so cruel firstlyto the people who were treated worse than being starved being murdered having no human rights . The animal cruelty was unbearable and inhumane . I am so glad I did n't see the movie . I wish I had never read the book it was nightmarish . Although we know that these things happened its just awful to read it and feel such pain AND sorrow . I woulsnt recommend to to anybody ever ",0
"I am a nurse . I love working with the geriatric population . This story was amazing . The author hit the nail on the head with the way that elderly are often treated and forgotten but can have so much to offer . They are a wealth of knowledge and entertainment . Very very well written ! ",4
"This was not Harry Potter or Twilight by any means but still a great read ! I could n't wait to pick it back up the next night and start reading again . ",3
"This is a disgusting book in my opinion . The author is way too graphic in descriptions just not necessary . That and the profanity seems to be the basis for the book no depth in it . Would not recommend . ",0
"FINALLY a book that Amazon recommended that I just LOVED ! It was so interesting wow ! I had NO idea what went on behind the scenes at the circus back in the day ! I devoured this book within two days because I just had to know how it would end ! ",4
"When the ending of a book makes me laugh triumphantly and yell Yes ! with tears in my eyesthat 's a great story.What a great glimpse into what life must have been like in a time we 've begun to forget . Loved it . ",4
"I found this to be quite entertaining . I was a huge fan of the sections where Jacob is an old man . It had a fantastic ending which is where so many books fall short . ",3
"I thought this book was poorly developed and depressing . Really can anybody come up with a book that does n't involve infidelity ? This guy threw away his whole life and what was the point of this book ? I thought it stunk . I ca n't even believe I read this tripe . stay away from this author ",0
"As a retired circus performer and amateur circus historian I read Water for Elephants with some hesitancy . Most circus fiction is hardly worth reading written by people who have no background in the business . There was much play about Gruen 's doing historical research for her novel at the Circus World Museum in Baraboo . And there is a lot of interesting history in it . But there is also some absolutely incredibly unbelieveable stuff too . Here are some glaring examples of what I consider to be the goofiness of the novel.Benzini Bros is portrayed as a 50 car railroad circus . If you know anything about the railroad shows of the era depicted in the book this would have been second in size only to Ringling Bros.and Barnum & Bailey Circus . Most circuses of that time even the smallest shows that traveled by trucks rather than by rail had at least one elephant at least one ! But here is this 50 car railroad show without any ! And during the Great Depression elephants were not that hard to come by as times were tough and shows folded went broke and had equipment and animals including elephants for sale either by choice or by the Sheriff 's gavel at forced auctions . Just amazing that Uncle Al the owner had been unable to get an elephant until Rosy came along.Then Uncle Al decides to blow his bookings and take his whole darn show out to where he eventually buys his elephant ! ! ! If there is any rule you do n't break with a circus it is that you do not walk away blow your bookings your route ! ! If you had a circus the size of this one in the novel your daily nut expenses would be very great . You can not afford to blow your booked dates unless there was something very major like a foot and mouth disease outbreak that could cause the show to be quarantined for months . Or the weather in the area you have been book is so bad you can not show because of flooding heavy rains snow etc . Or you were following some other shows who have played the area and business is therefore bad . But you just do n't pack up your who show blow booked dates and head on out to get some new attraction ! ! The way it worked and still works was that word of a show folding would be advertised in The Billboard the show trade publication of the time and buyers like Uncle Al or his agent would come out to where the defunct show 's assets were going to be sold or auctioned off and then the bidding or buying would take place . If you got your elephant it was trucked back or loaded on to a railroad freight car and sent to wherever your show was . But you did n't take your whole show and ship it out to pick up an elephant it 's a wonder Uncle Al succeeded in building a 50 car show at all with this kind of management ! Also I find it kind of strange that Uncle Al 's show pulls up along side another defunct show and loads that equipment with his and Benzini Bros goes on its merry way . And then at the end Benzini Bros becomes the defunct show and another comes along side and loads the remains of Benzini Bros . If you did n't know better you would think this is way shows would go out of business or be taken over by other shows . I wo n't say this kind of thing did n't happen but TWICE in the story ? Again when a show folded it was advertised in The Billboard as well as newpapers in the area it went defunct and the buyers would come to buy the equipment wagons tents and exotic animals etc . Horses were not too difficult to sell as horse power was still a major factor on farms at that time . There were dealers in used show equipment William P. Diamond Bill Hall of Lancaster Missouri being one who bought defunct shows ' equipment and animals and then turn around and sell that stuff to other showmen who would put out a new show with it.I would n't have bothered to write this but for the fact that reviews I read of Water for Elephants made a big to do about its historical research and socalled accurate portayal of the depression era railroad circus . But it is a good read if you discount all the goofiness in it . Just remember it is fiction and the writer has taken some real liberties with her work . ",2
"When I read the plot of this book I was skeptical but I 'd heard good things about it so I gave it a try . It hooked me and kept me reading immediately . I loved it . Wonderful story . ",4
"I read this book when it first came out and completely enjoyed it.. Fast paced.. Endearing characters.. Interesting all the way around.. This was just a wonderful book..Sit back and enjoy Emily P . ",4
"I purchased this book based on the reviews . The book was full of animal abuse and human abuse . I was so disappointed in it and if you have a weak stomach with animal abuse do n't read it . ",0
"I was skeptical at first after reading some of the reviews especially since this is n't my normal actionadventure thriller genre . But I took a flyer after a friend said I 'd really miss something special if I did n't read Water for Elephants . She was right ! Now I 'm telling you . Do n't miss this wonderful book ! ",4
"If you enjoyed the HBO Series Carnivale you will love this book . It is very well researched and captures the feel of the depression . This book provides a lot of historical information while being extremely entertaining . It also teaches a lesson in how quickly time flies . It is an adventure love and mystery story joined together . ",4
"A very endearing story told by an old man reflecting back on his time as a circus vet . Enjoyed the insight into circus life during the Great Depression with all its madness tragedy and colorful characters . High spirited with lots of drama and emotion . Predictable ending but nonetheless satisfying . Could easily see this one making it to the big screen using the same cast of characters from the Titanic . ",3
"After two hundred and fifty pages of waiting for the protagonist to do something do anything even remotely worthy of our spending time with him I finally gave up . It 's shocking that this is what has become of American literature . It 's the Oprah factor . Oh is n't it so romantic that this guy makes out with the bad guy 's wife while the bad guy beats the elephant with a stick with a nail in it . This guy allows the elephant to be beaten on a daily basis and he 's a vet and he does nothing . I do n't know maybe in the shocking ending we find out that this wimp did n't really exist or something like that but I could n't read another page where this ineffectual nonhero continued to do absolutely nothing . Zero . Just imagine Grapes of Wrath except Tom Joad turns a blind eye to workers being beaten so he can sneak around with a married woman and call her by her first name in 90 % of the sentences in which he speaks to her.If you love animals of any kind you will hate this protagonist . This book is worse than Cold Mountain . ",0
"I really have no right to proclaim that one day this book will be a classic but I am going to stick my neck out . What a powerful read . This book puts you into circus life in the Depression shakes you until you are groggy and then wakes you up to find that you ca n't stop thinking about the story . Ms. Gruen has obviously done her homework as she draws you into the seedymuddy bloody life of the circus . Very much unlike my experiences as a child going to see THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH circus life is portrayed as something less than glamorous . What wonderful characters and the plot is one big top thrill after the other . I will be very surprised if some Hollywood producer does n't grab this novel and make a fantastic movie . A book has to grab me with the first chapter for me to continue and I was grabbed during the first page . Do yourself a favor and give it a shot . You will not be disappointed at all . ",4
"I enjoyed reading the book and I really liked how it all wrapped up in the end . The only thing I did n't like was the flipping back and forth from past to present . I did n't really see any need . And I wished that there was n't a prolouge seemed to give something away too soon . Although the characters were great and the book was fun . ",3
"Every so often an author will write a story that seems to have been especially for you . Sara Gruen has written this kind of story . Without question this novel Water for Elephants is the best book I 've read this year and for some time . The events are so real and the characters so alive they tug at your heart bring laughter to your lips and tears to your eyes . I absolutely loved it and I 'm not an easy guy to please . ",4
"I listened to the unabridged audio CD version as I drove the last couple of weeks . I know that the book was and is a wildly popular bestseller but I have to confess that the thought that kept nagging at me as I listened was why ? I 'm not saying this is a bad book . It is somewhat engaging . However I did n't find any of the characters particularly vivid or humanly multidimensional . And as soon as Rosie the elephant was added to the circus halfway through the book I had a correct feeling as to where the plot line was moving so no surprise ending . I have no idea whether circus life in the prohibition era was anything like this so ca n't comment on the authenticity of the backdrop but I found it pretty depressing . Altogether a pretty soso read . ",2
"I stumbled on this book by accident it was on an iPad I had borrowed and was checking out the features but it grabbed my attention from the first page and I could not put it down . I recommended it to friends who loved it just as much . It is not my usual genre but I loved it . It had everything tragedy suspense romance and an interesting backdrop for a story . The movie was 'awwright ' ",4
"The writing in this book is about boring and uncreative as it can get . I am not speaking about the story which is OK though nothing too special . But the writing style itself and the use of the English language by the author is about as dry and unimaginative as one can get.It 's a fast read and I kept waiting for the plot twist that would make the book a worthwhile read but was left disappointed . Not a great read but not horrible either just very middle of the road and very forgettable . The author used to be a technical writer prior to writing this book and it shows . ",2
"Rooting for the underdog is easy to do today especially when that underdog has been dealt crap in his supposed hand of cards that he brings to the poker game . So when Sara Gruen attempts to bring us scenes from behind the scene of the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth through the creaks and crevices of Jacob Jankowski 's memory does she succeed in doing so ? Are you ready for a circus stunt such as this ? Well then read on ! ON TO THE BIG TOP MEAT AND POTATOES OF THIS EXTRAVAGANZA AS I DARINGLY ATTEMPT TO WRITE SUCH A REVIEW ! ! ! Just so you know I did n't think it was the latest and greatest masterpiece that everybody else did but I did n't think it totally sucked either . Ok you 've been fairly warned lest I rain on your precious parade or enlighten it whatever the case may be for the reader.To get things started Jacob Jankowski is ninety . Hmmmor maybe he 's ninety three . Ok ok he 's one or the other OK ? ! ! ? But he 's got a story to tell ya and it ai n't about Ringling . It is about one man who 's left with nothing after his parents are killed and he skips out on his vet finals . And that man hops a train and walks into a hairraising tale that only Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth can produce in a lifetime ! And once he hops this train he 's nothing but that changes rather quickly when certain authorities learn about his experience with animals despite not taking his final exams.From there Jacob is treated to a world of everybody and nobodies and sometimes the big boys who might be jealous of their wives who married the wrong man . People are supposed to water at the mouth at the tasty treats a circus can only offer and the men are more than likely to salivate at the cooch tent where flesh runs rampant for a certain price . He is shown how cruel a man can be and learns that to get what he wants out of this Main Attraction he has to fight and fight dirty just like the lowlifes who run this show . And of course there is Rosie the lone elephant in this show who is n't always understood except by Jacob and his hopeful honey Marlena . The question is is there any easy way out of this ? Unfortunately Sara Gruen makes it a little too easy in the end and what seems to be complex turns just a little too easy for my taste . And in the very end the ending is not only perfect but Hollywood could n't have conjured it up any better than Gruen did . I 'm not sure I appreciate such an effort . I respect it yes . The writing is spectacular . I just wish there was more to it . ",2
"I really enjoy Sara Gruen 's ability to tell a story and she captures circus life in a compelling way . I felt the characters were very tragic and it was difficult for me to read about so much animal abuse eventhough I understand August was a very sick character . ",3
"I was given this book by a friend that insisted that I read it It was fabulous . I read about 100 pages of it and set it down which is something I rarely ever do . A couple months go by and I was at a party where a couple people again said what a great book it was . I decided I had to give it another try so I picked it back up and continued to read it . At the end I still do n't understand the love of this book . I did n't care for the animal brutality and I just never connected with the characters in this book . ",1
"Loved this book . Though the ending is telegraphed ahead of the final chapter the book is satisfying and fun.I played in a circus band when I was a teenager and am delighted by the author 's accurate feel for circuses and descriptions of circus folks and traditions.Sara Gruen writes well . The story is solid . A very good book . ",4
"The highly improbable plot and characters were a disappointment . This was not a fun book ! ",1
"I enjoyed this book from beginning to end . It is n't often that my 20yearold daughter and I agree on a book but this one spanned the generations . ",4
"I read this book when it first came out . I picked it up at the library . I absolutely loved it then they made a movie out of it and the movie was great too surprise . I love depression era books and the fact that this took you into the circus during that era was wonderful to me . Sara Gruen makes you feel you are at the circus with these characters and can see them in all their glory and sometimes not so glory . ",4
"I was n't too enthusiastic about reading this and so I chose to see the movie before deciding whether or not I wanted to purchase it . After seeing the film I figured if the book is anything like the movie it would n't be half bad . The book is A MILLION times better . I read it in a few days and was absolutely hooked from cover to cover . As the book progresses you find yourself feeling everything Jacob feels guilt love affection worry etc . Gruen did an awesome job bringing the story to life and the characters Rosie and Kinko were definitely an added bonus . I would recommend this to just about anyone old enough to handle a few detailed scenes and my book had a series of pictures every couple of chapters some of which I would deem inappropriate for younger kids . I 'm seventeen and did n't have an issue with them but parents BE WARNED . ",4
"This book is so detailed and written in such a magnificent way that it practically puts you in the middle of the Benzini Bros Circus to live the story side by side with Jacob . You feel his love his anger his fear the pain exhaustion and cruelty of the circus life and the people in it . The twist and turns will leave you breathless and this book is impossible to put down . Recommended 100 % . ",4
"I give this book a 2.6 . All those people Jacob 's father helped in that little town and no one came forward in his time of tragedy ? It just did n't seem realistic to me . Someone from immigrant stock with the pluck and drive to get into Cornell vet school is not likely to founder in this situation nor just dismissively to walk away from his final exams . Jacob was n't a pampered trust fund baby he 'd probaby had it a bit rough all along . The rest of the story is just a contrivance built upon an unbelievable premise . ",2
"This book is well written and the story is so compelling ! I love how the narrator of the book is the old man . Really helps you to empathize with him and feel what he 's feeling . makes me realize that I better live the best life I can right now because some day I too will be telling my story if I live to see old age . ",4
"Learned alot about the people in the Circus and their struggles . Have a lot of respect for them now that I read the book . But the love story was the best . As always book so much better than the movie . ",4
"This book is pretty enjoyable to read . It is not the most exciting book I have read but it is not a bad read ",3
"I bought this book based on the recommendations from amazon . I found the book difficult to get through until the last 100 pages . The story is slow and simply tedious . I had to force myself through it . The end of the story about 200250 pages in it picks up a bit and becomes more fast paced and readable . ",1
"I 've been to the circus only once in my life as a small child towed along by my parents for what they surely thought would be a treat . It was n't . We never went again . Even as a small child I seemed to instinctively pick up on the abuse required to get wild animals to do what they do in the three rings of a circus . If nothing else the sight of such wonderful creatures as elephants lions tigers bears and various others forced to do what they would not normally do but for cheap human entertainment galled me . I loved animals . I loved them at a distance to view them in either their natural habitat or through some telescopic lens that would keep the disruption of their lives in the wild at a minimum . For that reason out of my respect for their wildness I have avoided both the circus and zoos.Sara Gruen 's novel Water for Elephants reinforced my decision . It is the story of Jacob Jankowski both at age 23 and at age 90something he ca n't clearly recall as he narrates the story in a series of flashbacks from the nursing home where he is at present wasting away his final days . He does not run away to the circus for the usual romantic reasons of seeking adventure and freedom as it is commonly viewed . His parents have died in a car crash and he finds himself without any inheritance a veterinary student who must suddenly face the need to become financially selfsufficient . He can no longer afford to remain in school . Instead he hops a train that carries all that is the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth . Through his eyes we come to see the behindthescenes reality of the circus.The star of this show this book is Rosie the elephant . She is the center point and around her tangle the many eccentric characters Uncle Al the sadistic circus boss August the equally sadistic animal trainer and his wife Marlena entrapped in the marriage but quickly returning the love Jacob shows her and hoping for escape and many others circus hands and assorted circus characters midgets and clowns and fat ladies and circus prostitutes each with their own sad story.The story moves quickly interspersed with fascinating black and white photos illustrating typical circus scenes of the day and adding historical credence . Gruen 's writing skill is evident in keeping the pages turning and involving the reader educating and tugging at heart strings as we witness scenes of cruelty against both human and animal . It is a not a literarily honed writing style but an involving and entertaining one . We are moved and we wish to know what happens to this array of colorful characters even if the ending is quite predictable in its revelation of who murdered August and what action the aging Jacob will take at first opportunity to escape the nursing home . ",3
"I was so surprised at the just how involved I became in this book ! The writing is exquisite yet transparent . Some authors have a style that forces you to be aware of how they turn a phrase and or paint a picture whether it 's done well or not Water for Elephants sweeps one away with ease drawing you into the story and the lives of the characters while traversing the books multiple layers . And Gruen 's ability to capture what old age is about is superb.The story 's synopsis has already been addressed so I wo n't repeat it but who knew I 'd be so involved in this lifestyle ? It 's been a truly long time since I could not put a book down and I loved having that experience yet again . ",4
"You want a simple down to the bare bones no beating around the bush review ? Well here it is read Water for Elephants.Seriously unless you are one of those elitist snobs who would much rather spend 8 hours trying to interpret a single poem by T.S . Elliot than it is virtually impossible not to like this novel.I 'm a huge fan of horror and as many buckets of blood as you can fit on a page so yeah the idea of a circus was n't exactly the most appealing of plots for me but I must say after only a measly 20 pages I was hooked.I suppose you can lay that on Gruen 's incredibly detailed and real descriptions of what circus life is really like . I may like reading about rending flesh and crimson spouting arterial wounds but even I could n't get enough of the Benzini Brother 's traveling circus and the rough lifestyle of it 's crew.There are many subplots and side stories throughout this novel but Gruen is a true master of tying them all together at the end . Unlike Nicholas Sparks 's disastrousThe Notebook this one is believable right down to Jacob and Marlena 's love interest.So you can choose how you want to take my brief little review but either way look at the ratings . 2000+ 5star praises ca n't all be wrong can they ? ",4
"Depressing . Well written with so much detail I felt I was there at the circus . Unfortunately that 's the problem . It 's set in the Depression . The horrible way the animals and workers were treated was too much for me to really enjoy the book . Very well written though and I would read other books by this author . ",2
"Generally a very good but somber look at circus life in the '30s . Like a circus train starting down the tracks the book got off to a slow start but like the train picked up traction and speed as it went on . This is not a happy book about a circus . It 's a naturalistic look at the big top and all that goes on under and around it . Mostly it aint pretty . The plot was wellexecuted and most of the characters welldeveloped . The author threw in a lot of fascinating detail about circus life and that of the Depression years in which most of the action takes place . Her insights into the mindset of a 93yearold man were apparently right on the mark . There 's a love affair here which could have been better done . There 's an elephant here who is the star of the book . There are bad guys and rubes and one or two good guys . I would say the book is more interesting than entertaining but entertaining it was . If you are a fan of circuses and who is n't ? you 'll get a lot of satisfaction out of this book . ",3
"This is a nice easygoing and well paced book . It is never dull and keeps the reader interested . However the storyline is somewhat predictable . ",3
"I had not read Sara Gruen 's work when my book club decided to read Water for Elephantsnow I am a big fan ! The writing is clear and engaging the story is filled with vivid characters including Rosie the elephant and the action is well paced . Gruen seamlessly interweaves the story of an aging excircus vet and his recollections of the exciting and often dangerous road show days . With her interesting research into the carny heyday Gruen transports the reader into another world including the fascinating vocabulary of the performers and roughnecks . A lovely story ! ",3
"I always had a vague idea as to what the Klondike gold rush was all about . Ms Gray provides a comprehensive overview of what it was like to be there in the late 19th century . ",3
"I watched the mini series on TV recently and decided to read the book . It was very good . I did n't know very much about this period in history and it was hard to imagine what these people went through to prospect gold the weather and their living conditions . ",4
"if you are interested in history of the Klondike this book gives the best details on the life in such a rugged part of history . great book . ",4
"After viewing the TV special I had to get this book . It is excellently written & well worth a read . Lived in Alaska for 20+ years & taken the train to Whitehorse from Skagway a number of times which allows you to view part of original trail . ",4
"We had watched the series on TV which was based on this book Gold Diggers and so I bought this for my husband . He is thrilled with the book which arrived in excellent used condition . He is telling me every day different information he is finding as he reads it . Very historical and thourough history . ",4
"Ordered the book after watching the tv mini series and found the book much better than the series . A greatly overlooked period of North American history Gold Diggers answered a lot of questions . And sent me on a search for other books on the same topicSuddenly my library has gone from zero Yukon gold rush books to 5 all covering different but also overlapping topics of the gold rush.Very happy with it ! ",4
"I watched the television miniseries and was interested to know more . I found the detail I wanted here . Fascinating story . Incredible adventures and a real insight into men who and their compulsions . Arguably these bizarre behaviors conquered the world . ",3
"I could not turn the pages faster on my Kindle Firewhat a read covering the 1898 Alaskan Gold Rush and especially the people and characters involved . Highly recommended ! JHP ",4
"TV show intrigued me so I was curious to learn what was fact and what was fiction . Particularly enjoyed the what happened to them afterwards part . ",3
"Absolutely fascinating . The book was well researched and many eyewitness accounts . Author also followed up the principal characters after the Klondike experience . ",4
"I hated history in school because it was always just a jumble of dates and places . Books like this are always a pleasure to read as you get to see what happened through the eyes of someone who was either there or did the research so you could see what happened through their eyes . Mine were definitely opened . Thank you to the author . ",4
"The book went deeper into the characters and what it was truly like to go to the end of the world in 1896 to try to find the gold that everyone was lead to believe was so easy to find . I find it very interesting and fun to read . ",4
"Isaw the movie on tv and wanted a more in depth story . I really enjoyed the comments that the author put in the book to add to the story . If the gold diggers has listened to the natives it would have been a lot easier for them no scurvy for one.thing . the local cures that she added were interesting . ",4
"Very informative . I read it after watching the movie it was based on . The movie was far from accurate but that is to be expected . What it did leave out was the criminal element that I am positive was going on at the time . ",4
"I wish I had been here to live this era . I read everything I can about Alaska the Klondike and all subsequent 's . Very well done and very glad I purchase it . ",4
"Historical . Makes me realize how fortunate we are today . We eat well avoid scurvy and can make decent money and have a life style that would have made those old prospectors envious . Hope we do n't blow it with all the government debt . ",3
"I loved this book . While it has history it is not a dull history book and the history is indeed interesting . The book details the lives of different people enveloped in the gold rush from a wonderful clergy man a young Irish woman with a keen sense for business successful and not so successful miners plus those who went there with no knowledge of mining or life in the very rugged north.The book is very well written and weaves the history the town of Dawson and the individual characters together seamlessly . ",4
"To me Hemingway epitomizes the hard drinking hard living hard loving worldy writer . In this book the main character Robert Jordan is a soldier send on a mission to the hills of Spain to blow up a bridge . There Jordan meets up with a rogue band of warriors who believe in war but not in military . Once united with the militia Jordan becomes involved with a woman named Maria . The fight scenes are incredible . The ending is even more incredible . I 'm not going give away the book but the ending brought tears to my eyes I guess it 's true underneath every man of steel is a heart of gold . ",4
"I do n't get what all the fuss was about Hemmingway being such a great author . This story sucked especially the ending . It just ends ! And what 's with ropesoled shoes ? He must use this phrase twenty times in the first couple chapters when describing someone . Then there 's this schmuck the main character Robert Jordan who has a screw loose . He keeps having a two way conversation with himself . I know I sometimes say something to myself like Boy Jeff that was a pretty stupid thing to do ! but I do n't answer myself back ! About the only positive thing I can say about this book is that some of the stuff in it about suicide sheds some light on why Hemmingway blew his brains out later in life . Boy to think that this is touted as probably Hemmingway 's best work ! If that 's the case then one Hemmingway book is enough for me . Now you take Dostoyevsky there was a writer ! ",0
"Ernest Hemmingway is one of the greatest writers when it comes writing about old school spain . it was a great read . strongly recommended although a bit complicated . ",4
"Mark Twain once said that a classic is a book that everyone wants to have read but nobody wants to read . It is a shame that For Whom the Bell Tolls is considered a classic because unlike some of Hemingway 's works this is such an exciting vivid impossibletoputdown novel . It should never be required reading in high school although intelligent young readers would certainly love it . Now that I think about it some of the violent scenes are probably too gory for today 's politically correct curriculum anyway . It is the sort of book that someone 's older brother at college lends to them and then they pass it on to their best friend and so on . There 's a lot to this book beyond the plot but unlike many other books that strive to explore deep human themes of life sex and death this one is approachable and very readable.The only reason I can think of not to drop everything and read this book right away look how cheap the used copies are for crying out loud ! is if you are planning a long voyage and want to make sure you have something really great to read along the way in which case I would wait . While I am sorry that I did n't the book myself until I was 34 I had the great gift of reading it on a camping trip amidst hills streams pine tress and a rocky coastline that made it easy to imagine myself in the mountains of Spain along with the characters and that made it worth the wait . ",4
"An interesting historical novel set in the context of Revolutionary Spain but classic Hemmingway it carries with it the important lesson of activism over apathy especially pertinent to today 's world . It teaches that ideals transcend political boundaries and that if you believe in something strongly then you owe it to yourself to protect that ideal in any part of the world and at any cost even that of your life . Intwined is a beautiful love story . One of my top 5 greatest books of all time . Thats a rave baby . The poem by John Donne at the beginning makes the book worth buying.A 5 because it is a great story with an invaluable lesson . If you gain nothing you still read beautiful prose by one of the greatest authors ever . ",4
"I have been interested as a proRepublican partisan in the Spanish Civil War since I was a teenager . What initially perked my interest and remains of interest is the passionate struggle of the Spanish working class to create its own political organization of society its leadership of the struggle against Spanish Fascism and the romance surrounding the entry of the International Brigades particularly the American Abraham Lincoln Battalion of the 15th Brigade into the struggle.Underlying my interests has always been a nagging question of how that struggle could have been won by the working class . The Spanish proletariat certainly was capable of both heroic action and the ability to create organizations that reflected its own class interests i.e . the worker militias and factory committees . Of all modern working class uprisings after the Russian revolution Spain showed the most promise of success . Russian Bolshevik leader Leon Trotsky noted in one of his writings on Spain that the Spanish proletariat at the start of its revolutionary period had a higher political consciousness than the Russian proletariat in 1917.That analysis calls into question the strategies put forth by the parties of the Popular Front including the Spanish Communist Party defeat Franco first and then make the social transformation of society . Ernest Hemingway in his novel For Whom the Bells Toll weighs in on that question here . Whatever value the novel had or has as a narrative of a small slice of the Spanish events one must look elsewhere to discovery the causes of the Republican defeat.Ernest Hemingway most definitively was in love with Spain and always lurking just below the surface was his love affair with death . That combination placed in the context of the Spanish Civil War of 193639 makes for an explosive dramatic tale . The hero is an American Robert Jordan aka Ernest Hemingway of fizzy politics but a desire to help the Spanish people . Additionally Jordan if expediency demands it is willing to face danger and death at the command of the Communistdominated International Brigades although it is not always clear whether he is a Lincoln Brigade volunteer or a freelancer . Hemingway 's critique of the Stalinist domination of the military command and therefore authors of the military strategy that led to defeat at times overwhelms the story . His skewering of Andre Marty leader of the International Brigades also has that same effect . In short Hemingway believed that 'outside forces ' meddling in Spanish affairs led to death for Jordan and disaster for the Spanish people . Well nobody expects nor is it mandatory for a novelist to be politically astute or correct . Here Hemingway joins the crowdThe one subject that Ernest Hemingway seemed consistently to excel at was the telling of war stories . And whatever else might be true of For Whom the Bell Tolls it is preeminently a war story . A classic war romance if you have also seen the movie treatment of the book starring Gary Cooper and Ingrid Bergman . It might be a male thing it might be a Hemingway thing or it might be that the nature of war lends itself to dramatic tension that holds a story together . Today in some literary circles it is not considered politically correct to laud works by such dead white males as Hemingway but the flat out truth is that the man could write . If his work stands outside the current canon of American literary efforts then something is wrong with the new canon.To make matters worst the current leftistoriented literary establishment grizzled hardbitten warriors that they are has not been the only force that has taken aim at Hemingway 's head . At the time of publication in 1940 the Veterans of the Abraham Lincoln Battalion those who actually fought in Spain and the various Communist Parties throughout the world were unhappy with the novel . Why ? Hemingway was too harsh on the deficiencies of the Communists the International Brigades and the Republican forces in general . Above I mentioned that writers were not expected to be politically astute . That is one thing . But to say that Hemingway was essentially sabotaging the exiled Republican efforts to aid the refugees by the thrust of his novel is also politically wrong . The man did materially and militarily aid the Republican side sponsoring volunteers and ambulances . That accrues to his honor . In short Hemingway 's writings yes . Hemingway 's politics no ",3
"A great read and informative about that era of history . My first Hemingway book . but not my last . Thank you . ",3
"War is ugly and this story could just as easily be placed in Afganistan . The love scenes between Robert and Maria were very moving . ",4
"Hemingway deftly walks us into the heart of war and a man caught between his loyalty to his position in the military and his love for Pilar a woman like no other . Some highly memorable scenes and conflicts prove this novel 's place as a classic . Reviewed by Jonathan Stephens ",4
"10 stars ? 20 stars ? For Whom the Bell Tolls is one of the great works of literature.REALLY Amazon . There are certain books for which your asking for a review exposes the need for your system to have better information and more specific query criteria before requesting a review . ",4
"Covering a period of just under four daysthis riveting story tells of a doomed offensive against the facists in the Spanish civil war . Robert Jordan seeks the help of partizans in the mountains to blow a bridge . Amongst them is MariaWhat can be said of this great work that has n't been said a million times ? It is a fantastic thrillera close account of the Spanish war and cultureof love of deathof political stupidities.But for methis is the book that finally tuned me into Hemingways style and powerhis laconic but highly descriptive prose that press all the right buttons in the imaginationthe use of 'Thee ' and 'Thou ' to properly give the feel of the peasants dialectthe way he builds up complex characters with just the briefest of story lineseven the way Robert Jordan is always refered to as Robert Jordan seems to add to his character.Its wonderful and each chapter excites and adds.When I was about 11 or 12 I foolishly tried to take on 'Farewell to Arms ' and simply did n't have the reading ability then to take aboard Hemingways style although I see now how many imitators it has This prejudiced me against him . I did n't go overboard with the 'easier ' 'Old Man and the Sea ' but warmed a bit after reading 'Men Without Women ' and thought I 'd give Hemingway another go some time and am so glad I did with this one.The complexities of this book are reflected in Hemingways own lifethe preoccupation with death and suicideof beauty and brutality.A great book a book in the true sense of the word.Persist with Hemingway as when you 'get ' him the experience is truly wonderful . ",4
"I had only read The Old Man and The Sea before this novel . This book just grabbed me and I had to read it until I finished it . The trademark Hemingway style of silence is present here . The landscape and environment are as much a part of the story as the characters . It took getting used to pages of describing the landscape so deeply but once I went along for the ride I enjoyed the novel immensely . The plot seems conventional that 's fine for me . ",4
"As I look over the reviews of the classic works of literature I am appalled by how often I see the word boring being used . I guess it 's because great books do n't come with big screens speakers and a joy stick . Welcome to the Millenium . ",4
"I found this book which takes place during the Spanish Civil War interesting in its descriptions and although it is excruciatingly slow in its development five hundred pages detailing three days worth of events somewhat compelling in its own way.And yet in the end For Whom the Bell Tolls is ultimately a novel with a fatalistic outlook and few if any redeeming messages for humanity in spite of all the commentaries it makes about human nature . To me the story was the most interesting as a reflection of Hemingway 's own experiences and strange outlooks on life.For example one would assume that Robert Jordan the main character is a reflection of what Hemingway deems heroic . Like Hemingway Jordan is a rugged somewhat independent sort . Jordan characterizes the literary period 's allure for the expatriate life and Hemingway 's fascination with Spain and dislike for the Spanish Fascist . But yet one has to wonder what compels Jordan an American college professor from Montana to be involved in this Spanish Civil War to the extent that he has become a demolitions expert and is ready to kill Spaniards regardless of what side they happen to have fallen upon without any conscience . What busness really and truly is this war of his ? Further how do you root for a hero who is fighting for and willing to give his life while following orders from Communists that Hemingway makes clear are every bit as brutal as the Fascists ? Notable is the fact that the Jordan character feels shame for a father who committed suicide just as Hemingway 's own father did . And for Hemingway to commit suicide 20 years after this book was written parallels the sense of inevitable doom that is a pervasive theme of this story.This book demonstrates that Hemingway had a way with descriptions and dialogue that can be at times entertaining and at other times irritating . For example his conventions for speech that is a more literal reflection of the Spanish language is rather clever . However as the story progresses Hemingway 's usage of the King Jamesstyle Thee and Thou to indicate that a more formal Spanish dialect is being used becomes distractingly gimmicky and wore quite thin by the end of the book . At least it did for me.This is a story about people who are flawed to the extent that they will kill without hesitationpeople who have abandoned God and Godly virtues and look to themselves for their own salvation . What little is left is a cause whose means and ends do n't seem to differ from the alternative and an appeal to virtues of loyalty to the band or one 's responsibility to follow his duty . The trouble is these appeals are made among characters who Jordan as Hemingway 's voice often considers untrustworthy repugnant and treacherous . Rather contradictory I would say . And Jordan 's fatalistic sense of duty to a cause of questionable politics and in a country that is n't even his own is just plain strange to say the least.Interesting as character study and a microcosm of the Spanish Civil War but very depressing . ",1
"Are there no pleasant things to speak of ? Do we have to talk always of horrors ? asks Maria at one point in For Whom the Bell Tolls.Good question.To be fair For Whom the Bell Tolls is n't ALL about horrors . It even has some pleasant moments . But ultimately it 's about the selfless nature of warwhich though Hemingway clearly intends us to admire the acts of sacrifice to which the war incites his characters I think is the greatest condemnation of war.But Hemingway 's portrayal of this theme is quite powerful . He is n't always consistent but he is about as consistent as it is possible to be about such a theme and much more so than most which is of great artistic value.It 's also generally very well written much more so than and something of a relief after reading a lot of fauxHemingway like John Steinbeck or Cormac McCarthy . And I thought this was much better than the only other Hemingway I 've read A Farewell to Arms . But there are a few passages that miss the mark such as this almost comically bad sex scene They were having now and before and always and now and now and now . Oh now now now the only now and above all now and there is no other now but thou now and now is thy prophet . Now and forever now . Come now now for there is no now but now . Yes now . Now please now only now not anything else only this now and where are you and where am I and where is the other one and not why not ever why only this now and on and always please then always now always now for now always one now one only one there is no other one but one now one going now rising now sailing now leaving now wheeling now soaring now away now all the way now all of all the way now one and one is one is one is one is one is still one is still one is one descendingly is one softly is one longingly is one kindly is one happily is one in goodness is one to cherish is one now blah blah blah.The mindnumbing repetitiousness of this description if one can call it that is especially unfortunate as it echoes another passage just a few pages earlier which is intended to have quite a different feel muck this whole treacherous muckfaced mucking country and every mucking Spaniard in it on either side and to hell forever . Muck them to hell together Largo Prieto Asensio Miaja Rojo all of them . Muck every one of them to death to hell . Muck the whole treacheryridden country . Muck their egotism and their selfishness and their selfishness and their egotism and their conceit and their treachery . Muck them to hell and always . Muck them before we die for them . Muck them after we die for them . Muck them to death and hell It goes on like this at some length.But in the end Hemingway affirms that there are pleasant things to speak of That is in Madrid . Just over the hills there and down across the plain . Down out of the gray rocks and the pines the heather and the gorse across the yellow high plateau you see it rising white and beautiful . That part is just as true as Pilar 's old women drinking the blood down at the slaughterhouse . There 's no one thing that 's true . It 's all true . The way the planes are beautiful whether they are ours or theirs . But the horrors win out in the end The hell they are he thought.Three and a half stars . ",3
"The title says everything I guess . A genius being genial . Like when one listens to certain musicians and realizes that he 's not merely listening he 's going through an experience . Go for it ! ",4
"I 'm writing this review almost immediately after finishing it . Too soon but here goes . Supposedly about the Spanish Civil war but no explanation was given . I used Wikipedia to explain the factions . Boring were the endless pages about Russian involvement . My Russian professor in collegecirca 195354was there having been sent to teach the guerrillas Spanish history . They knew it . From oral history.Hemingway wrote much of his dialogue to reflect the Spanish language using the singular thee and thou to signal respect or disrespect love tenderness and the plural you to show authority etc.Substituting the noun obscenity repeatedly for verba was ridiculous . I assumed the publisher was responsible for this censorship . I might be wrong . Hemingway did not avoid the Fbomb or the Abomb when he frequently wrote in Spanish joder and cabron respectively.The amount of internal dialogue was both good and bad the latter being excessive unless you read it carefully . The thoughts were real and showed internal conflict related to someone 's doubts while in warfare . Artemos a beloved older religious character asks himself whether there is a difference between killing a human and and hunting animals . Has he sinned against his religion or God when he kills people during war ? Is he forgiven when peace comes again ? The love scenes between the protagonist Robert and Maria are unlike those popularly devoured in romance novels . On one hand they are corny . On the other they focus on whether two intimate people become one during life and after death whether they are one even when they are apart from one another.There is no doubt that there is repetitionwhether necessary or unnecessarywill be up to you to decide.Get the book read it and try to understand what Hemingway was saying or trying to say.Barbara C. Johnson author of Behind the Black Robes Failed Justice ",2
"Forget the Lost Generation stories and The Old Man and the Sea . This is Hemingway 's true masterwork giving more actual insight into a volatile period of world history ",4
"This tackles several questions How war shapes men past and present and what a real hero is.Set in the Spanish Civil War the story revolves around the experiences of a volunteer fighter an American college professor named Robert Jordan . Filled with idealism at first watch him reconsider as he faces the prospect of his own death.One of Hemingway 's finest . ",4
"For Whom The Bell Tolls by Ernest HemingwayBook Review by Benn BellThe title For Whom The Bell Tolls is taken from a poem written by John Donne wherein he makes the claim that because of our common humanity every death necessarily diminishes each of us therefore ask not for whom the bell tolls it tolls for thee . This is a book about death and dying set against the backdrop of the Spanish Civil War.Hemingway 's novels and stories present a certain kind of hero The Code Hero . This individual lives by his own code and struggles gracefully and bravely against death and annihilation . Another consistent theme found in Hemingway is courage under fire or dire circumstances whether it is in the bull ring behind enemy lines or hunting maneaters in the green hills of Africa . Cowardice is particularly loathed.The novel begins in 1937 at the height of the Spanish Civil War and takes place over a four day period . The chief protagonist is an American named Robert Jordon who has been tasked to blow up a bridge behind enemy lines in the Spanish mountains . He is aided in this task by a band of guerrillas headed by Pablo and the woman of Pablo Pilar . We also meet the beautiful Maria . A young Spanish girl whose parents were murdered by Fascists soldiers who then raped and abused Maria . Some say that Maria represents Spain and her gang rape represent the despoilage of Spain by the Fascists.Robert and Maria fall in love at first sight . This is another recurring theme to be found in Hemingway that humans can find salvation through romantic love . The couple makes love together in Jordon 's sleeping bag on the ground outside the mouth of the cave where they are all hiding . He asks Maria Did the earth move for thee ? This is the earliest I have seen this terminology in print and is now considered a clich & eacute but it may be that Hemingway coined this usage.Hemingway 's use of language was controversial in this novel . Many Spanish words and phrases were translated literally word for word which gave a sense of the Spanish but sounds archaic and stilted to our English hearing ears . For example the Spanish characters in the novel referred to each other as thee and thou . The traditional second person singular in English is thoutheethy . The most exact way of translating tu from Spanish is thou or thee . This was a bold experiment . Once the convention was understood and accepted one got used to and even grew to like it.During the course of the novel many flashbacks and digressions take place as various characters tell their stories and reminiscence about the past . We learn for example that Jordon 's Grandfather was a Civil War hero in the America 's war of rebellion . We also learned that his father was a coward and that he shot himself to death with a pistol . It is indeed ironic that Hemingway 's own father committed suicide and that Hemingway took his own life with a shot gun many years later.Death is the primary focus of the novel with much discussion amongst the characters about what it is like to kill another human being was it the right thing to do and what would it be like to die . In the end Jordon is fatally wounded after successfully completing his mission and trying to escape . He waits by the roadside while the others get away hoping to kill as many of the enemy soldiers as he can before he dies.It took me a long time to get around to reading this book . I have been carrying it around with me since 1971 . I finally read it in 2011 . Forty years . It was well worth the wait . While each man 's death may diminish me to some extent this novel has made me whole . ",4
"Over the years I have read a lot about Hemmingway and how important of a writer he was so I figured it was finally time for me to read one of his books . To be honest I chose this one because I was familiar with the Metallica song that was named after this book.I found this to be one of the most difficult books I have ever read not because of the style or because I did n't like it but because simply it was just a difficult story to read . The novel is full of strong themes about death and honor . Robert Jordan the main character is a man who does not get caught up in any causes or seems to hold any passionate views . Through the whole book he questions his beliefs in the socialist cause his only concern seems to be defeating the fascists . All of this changes when he meets Maria . The two fall for each other immediately and suddenly Jordan is confronted with the real prospect of the fact that he will not survive his mission.What made this story so difficult to read was that Hemmingway comes across as a nihilist in the writing of this story . His characters are completely controlled by fate and feel powerless to stop the events that are put into place . It seems as if Jordan would have been better off had he not met Maria and cared about her.Overall the story is very good . I would highly recommend it anyone . ",3
"We 'll start with the simple ones sad deep bloodyBut it 's the longer ones that truly sum up the book thoughtful emotional frighteningFor Whom the Bell Tolls starts out simply enough but it slowly progresses to being a book that houses a series of complex not entirely predictable characters . Robert Jordan is the main character an American often comparing often thinking . We follow him around in the midst of a notsopleasant frighteningly bloody war . He is accompanied by other men who are either helping him or have similar tasks though not all are so . There is Pablo who in reality is Jordan 's enemy in that he intends to prevent Jordan from blowing up a certain bridge . There is Pablo 's wife Pilar who tells a chunk of the book in the form of stories to Jordan about the past . There is Maria Jordan 's crush and though many concentrate on their love Maria is a rather flat character though her history is one that tells more about the surrounding situation.The book itself is n't across that long of a time span on the other hand it includes many stories that are told to Jordan . The reader is drawn in quickly and despite the blood the fear and the uneasy way everything is written it 's an incredible book . Perhaps it 's because of these things they make the book more realistic and touching to the reader.It is certainly a great book a wonderful read and an interesting view on a little known event . It 's a good book to read even if you 're not fond of stories with death and blood . ",4
"The urtext for today 's wartime adventure novel For Whom The Bell Tolls remains a standard bearer for pulsepounding action fiction and one of the true masterpieces by the most celebrated American author of his time.Robert Jordan is a Spanishlanguage instructor from Montana who now in Spain has a job of another kind blow up a critical bridge under enemy control before his comrades the Republicans of the Spanish Civil War mount a critical attack . He falls in with a band of motley guerrillas discovering the joy and passion of life even as he must make peace with the real possibility of his death.When published in 1940 there was little need to explain the title the bell was tolling pretty loudly for just about everyone outside of Sweden and Chile as the Axis powers led by Nazi Germany rolled up giant chunks of the globe . Germany 's threeyear dress rehearsal had been the Spanish Civil War where they helped Spanish fascists and monarchists overthrow the Marxistled Republicans while Western democracies watched idly . Ernest Hemingway a strong supporter of the Republican cause lost arguably the only country he ever really loved.For Whom The Bell Tolls could have been an exercise in toldyouso or score settling with the rightwing victors Hemingway despised . Yet the story is so engaging so raw and sweeping in its style so visceral in form and undogmatic in outlook that it is hard to know from reading it just how bruised a champion Hemingway had been for the losing team . The most drawnout brutal section of narrative deals with atrocities committed by Republicans not fascists . Rebels and Republicans alike appear oddly human.Do you think you have a right to kill any one ? No . But I have to . How many of those you have killed have been real fascists ? Very few . But they are all the enemy to whose force we are the opposing force . But you like the people of Navarra better than those of any other part of Spain . Yes . And you kill them . Yes.That 's one of many internal monologues Jordan has with himself in the course of the book which may annoy some expecting more walltowall action but works fine by me . It 's easy imagining oneself pondering similar questions in similar situations and the running streamofconsciousness adds to the nailbiting tension.Hemingway also does very well by the secondary characters especially the guerrilla band Jordan takes up with . Their leader Pablo was a onceruthless killer of fascists now reduced to drink and trainrobbing . There is not enough of you left to make a sick kitten says Pablo 's bitter woman Pilar herself a tigress and Jordan 's chief ally . Pilar is both supporter and scoffer of Jordan 's budding relationship with Maria a teenaged rape survivor rescued by the guerrillas . This is not a merry band of outlaws their very fractiousness draws you in.As a Sam Peckinpah fan I was struck by how pleasingly similar For Whom The Bell Tolls was to the classic Western desperado saga The Wild Bunch . Both are straightforward action yarns with a lot of backstory vivid characters and setting and a storyline that cleverly pulls you in even as it seems to ramble.For Whom The Bell Tolls is less concerned about the bridge itself where or when precisely this action is occurring is never spelled out then the feelings that surround warfare and how and why one man must do what he can for as Rick said in Casablanca the problems of one man do n't add up to a hill of beans in this crazy mixedup world . Hemingway 's ending is less Hollywood but just as stirring and a fittingly openended climax to this singular story . ",4
"Five stars are not enough for the audio of this book narrated by Campbell Scott . I do not speak Spanish or know much about the Spanish Civil War or the geography of Spain . It did not matter . This is a great gripping story.Robert Jordan is a wonderful character macho intelligent generous deliberate . Pablo and El Sordo guerilla leaders and Pilar the woman of Pablo and Roberto 's change agent are fascinating as are several Russians and Fernando the rather prim guerilla . Other characters are colorful but not as engaging . Hemingway tries very hard but can not quite bring Maria the love interest to life.The issues are how to die well the roles of individuals and small groups in large movements and wars and whether any reform movement can change a country . Robert Jordan approaches but does not reach the conclusion Meet the new boss same as the old boss . Wo n't get fooled again . Also does religion mean anything and is it merely the opium of the people ? Is it possible to live and die without religion when one was raised with it ? Campbell Scott should get an Academy Award for this narration . He voices all of the characters well . It is hopeless for a man to read Maria 's perpetually ernest no pun intended lines . He conveys the irony the disgust the subtle sparring very well . He switches from the choppy Hemingway style for Robert Jordan 's thoughts to the cadences of Spanish and Russian for the others . He absolutely brings the story and the characters to life . I have listened to many books on tape and CD and this is hands down the best . Very highly recommended . Thanks Dad for giving it to me.In the audio edition even the incidental music is perfect as are the pauses before it begins and after it ends . It is just about a perfect production . A map of in the CD box would make it perfect . It should identify all the places named in the text and shows the rivers and roads mentioned and the bridge ! ! even if this requires more than one map . Next best alternatives would be a CD or website with this info . But it would be best to have a hard copy with the audio CDs . Stephen Ambrose audio tapes about WWII came with maps like this and they were very helpful . This would help any edition of the book in any medium as would a bibliography of the Spanish Civil War . I read this as a teenager and enjoyed it . Back then I thought that there might be many books this good out there in the world . It turns out that there are not many books this good . ",4
"This is one of the greatest modernist novels to deal with the subject of war . Set during the Spanish Civil War of the 1930s this novel explores war as it really is not as what it is glorified or vilified to be according to the whims of a journalist or novelist . There is very little of the actual war in the foreground of the plotthe entire novel spans only about four daysbut the relationships of the characters and their interaction with one another allows the reader to see what war is like from the viewpoint of those who participate in it . Like Crane 's The Red Badge of Courage this book deals with the psychological and human ramifications of war.The hero is Robert Jordan an American idealist fighting in Spain on the side of the ` Republic ' or Communist party . Opposite the ` Reds ' are the socalled fascists . At the beginning Jordan has an unflinching and unwavering duty to the cause but the people he meets and a girl he falls in love with alter somewhat his outlook . The bulk of the novel deals with Jordan 's own philosophy but also with the philosophy of the band of guerillas he is assigned to complete a mission with . Through his love for the girl Maria and his interaction with the scheming rebel leader Pablo and his wife Pilar Jordan learns much about life and war.The plot moves quickly enough and all leads up to the final climactic battle at the bridge . This is perhaps Hemingway 's finest moment and his treatment of the battle and fate of the group is nothing short of masterful . The quote from John Donne never send to know for whom the bell tolls looms ominously throughout the novel and the battle of the bridge and the final chilling moment of truth for Robert Jordan drives home the harrowing fact that is the reality of war it tolls for thee . ",4
"For Whom the Bell Tolls takes the reader on a three and a half day journey starring Robert Jordan who is assigned with blowing up a bridge . He is in Spain and the fighting is between fascists and the Republicans Robert Jordan & # 8217s side . It accounts his time with a group of guerrilla fighters.While the writing drags on at times and in the beginning it is difficult to tell what or whom the dialogue is between it is a pretty good book . Topics such as love & # 8211 between Maria and Jordan the psychology of soldiers and who God is are covered in this book . ",3
"Hemingway 's story of Robert Jordan an American college instructor fighting for the Spanish republic is a beautiful story of desperate love and the death of an ideal.Robert Jordan has been assigned the task of blowing up a bridge behind Fascist lines in support of a Republican offensive . He is sent to a guerrilla camp in the mountains behind the lines where he meets those who are to help him with this task . He also meets and falls in love with Maria a young Spanish woman who was brutalized by the fascists and rescued by the band in a previous raid.Hemingway details the nature of the war in the way that only he can using his stark prose to depict the decay of the idealism that characterized the beginning of the Spanish Republic . This is particularly evident in the character named Pablo a oncefervent fighter for the Republic who has lost hope in the cause and just wants to be left alone in the hills . Each character has his own idea of the Republic and why they are fighting which is as truthful a depiction of the Republican cause as could be hoped for.There were three parts of this book which really stood out for me . The first was Pilar 's account of the execution of the fascists in her village . Pablo 's ruthlessness along with the growing terror of the people who go from reluctant participants to bloodthirsty mob is terrifying in its escalation and horrible finish . Second is the final stand of El Sordo who accepts his fate but draws a little pleasure and satisfaction in his efforts . Third is the final battle in Chapter fortythree . Hemingway does n't overdramatize things he realizes that things are dramatic enough and the straightforward presentation of the battle as things go well and then get worse carries much more impact as a result . The stark straightforward writing makes these events come to life as tragic circumstances not only for the dead but for those who survive as well.I would suggest that any reader do a little research into the Spanish Civil War before reading this book as a little knowledge of the circumstances and people of the war like Marty and La Pasionaria will enrich the story immensely.This book is very compelling reading as Robert Jordan struggles with love and duty while both fearing and accepting his dangerous assignment . In the abstract this book is about the death of the ideal in Spain the corruption and dissent which led to the demise of the Republic . Hemingway conveys these ideas in a way that only Hemingway can weaving a fabric of sadness and beauty amid hopeless circumstances . ",4
"Warning there may be a few SPOILERS in my review . I will try to warn the reader in advance.I have actually read a fair amount of Hemingway . I have readThe Sun Also RisestwiceA Farewell To ArmsThe Old Man and The SeaThe Short Stories andA Moveable Feast . I have also been reading a fair amount about Hemingway lately . I have learned a great deal about Hemingway 's technique and I have come to admire his craft and artistry but I have not been able to find any Hemingway book that really moved me or in my mind justified his reputation or popularity . Until now . I just finished For Whom the Bell Tolls and I was blown away . I finally feel like I have some understanding of why people love Hemingway and why he is such an important writer . This is in my opinion by far Hemingway 's best novel . There are I think a few reasons for that.First the novel has the most engaging plot of the Hemingway novels I have read . In general plot is not all that important to me . I tend to be more interested in the quality of the writing and the philosophical ideas contained in a novel . It was surprising to me therefore what a difference having an interesting plot made in terms of my enjoyment of the book . I guess plot does matter ! The novel is about an American helping a band of guerillas in the Spanish Civil War blow up a bridge . The novel is very exciting and tense in places and Hemingway paces things perfectly . POSSIBLE SPOILER . The climactic scene on the bridge was in my opinion perfectly paced . Hemingway slows things down not enough to bore the reader but just enough to keep them on the edge of their seat . Anyone who wants to learn how to pace an action scene would do well to study the bridge scene closely . I was mesmerized.Second the characters were more interesting than the usual Hemingway characters . I do not tend to like any of Hemingway 's characters all that much but I was surprised that I liked all the characters in this book . Robert Jordan is a professional as so many of Hemingway 's heroes are but he is a likable professional . He has heart and understanding . He forgives people their faults and weaknesses and he is noble . He is also capable of great passion . Pilar and Pablo are very interesting characters as well each in their own way . I think Hemingway could have done a little better with Maria . She was of all the characters the least well drawn to me . She felt secondary to me like she was put in as a means of making Robert Jordan more interesting as opposed to being her own independent character with an independent value . Still the relationship between Robert and Maria was powerful.Third this novel comes later in Hemingway 's career and his style has developed a great deal since The Sun Also Rises . The Sun Also Rises is told in very plain and very direct prose . There is very little lyricism . In For Whom the Bell Tolls Hemingway still uses what he learned from his earlier direct style but it is much more lyrical and beautiful . Everything that was great about his early style is still here but it is better . There is genuine lyricism in the prose . There is no doubt in my mind that Hemingway continued to grow as an artist and this book seems to me to be his most mature statement as an artist . He restrained himself for a long time he learned control and here he has what seems to me to be a carefully controlled unrestraint as paradoxical as that might sound . He is like a horse trainer who finally has enough control over his horse to let it run wild sometimes . He does not have to keep it tethered all the time.Even more than the lyricism however there is passion and feeling in the prose . One of the things I did not like about Hemingway 's early style was his penchant for affectless understatement and ironic detachment . I am by no means an expert in Hemingway 's development or style but I do not remember any passages like this in The Sun Also Rises He looked at her brown face and at the eyes that since he had seen them had never been as young as the rest of her face but now were suddenly hungry and young and wanting 67 . You can feel the longing in that prose . You can picture Hemingway typing those words and getting caught up in the passion as opposed to remaining stoic and detached all the time . SPOILER ALERT . That is especially true in the farewell scene between Robert and Maria . There have only been two books that have ever brought tears to my eyes and this book is one of them the other is Cormac McCarthy'sThe Road . The farewell scene between Robert and Maria was very sad and poignant . I had no idea Hemingway was capable of such power . He is less restrained here and it shows.There are a number of really poignant scenes in the book . There is a scene where Robert is remembering back to his childhood when he had to get on a train and go to school for the first time . His dad is very emotional he is crying and he says a little prayer before Robert gets on the train . Robert is embarrassed for his father and he says it was the first time he felt older than his father . It is a very poignant and beautiful moment . There is very little of that in the other Hemingway I have read.Finally the novel deals with some interesting themes . Like all Hemingway novels there is the theme of courage but Hemingway lets us hear the thoughts of his characters as they battle with their own fear in this book in a way that he does not in his other works . Death is also a theme as it is in nearly all Hemingway works . SPOILER ALERT . Robert Jordan expresses beautifully what is so difficult about death . Robert Jordan is an atheist . He does not believe in any afterlife so he is not frightened by the afterlife . The reason death is difficult is because The world is a fine place and worth the fighting for and I hate to leave it very much Robert Jordan 's own words 467 . Only Hemingway could have expressed the sadness of having to say goodbye to the world and everything in it so simply and yet so powerfully . This is easily one of the most moving books I have ever read and I never thought I would say that about a Hemingway book . I highly recommend it to anyone and everyone whether you are a Hemingway fan or not . ",4
"Who am I or anyone else to critique this masterpiece ? I like to read a wide variety and the classics have a beloved place in the cycle . This book is a masterpiece pure and simply a masterpiece . ",4
"First things first if you want a quick thriller than this is not the book for you . If what you want is a compelling thought provoking and an informative narrative of guerrila 's in the Spanish civil war than this is up your alley . Even with its slow pace and limited conflict lessons are learned in every chapter . Everything from how to treat unreliable ally 's to how to deal with love in war . Hemmingway 's writting is somewhat repetitive but in its elegance completely bareable . Having only read The Old Man and the Sea I ca n't compare it to his other longer fiction to me For Whom the Bell Tolls was a more rewarding read . With a great cast of characters that constantly enrich plot all with back stories that build character developement . Robert Jordan the main character gives an American familiarity to the story making it even more accessible to today 's readers . Hemmingway has a way with words that puts you in the story with Robert Jordan 's up 's and down 's you understand him you want to be him . Anyone who has n't read Hemmingway 's work but enjoys any American classics from Steinbeck to McCarthy will find this read enjoyable and rewarding . ",3
"I love Hemingway but this book bored me to tears . I 'll concede that I watched the movie first and knowing the ending took some of the fun out of it . Go read A Moveable Feast . You can always come back to this one later . ",1
"Excellent Excellent Excellent . One of the best war novels I 've ever read . Now I know why Hemingway is known as one of the greatest writers of all time . I absolutely loved The Old Man and Sea but when A Farewell to Arms fell a little short I had my doubts . This was the one that finally clinched it in my mind that Hemingway deserves all of the accolades he 's received over the years . It 's a love story that takes place up in the mountains of Spain during the Spanish Civil War which took place in the 1930 's . The main character Robert Jordan is a young American dynamiter in the International Brigade . Back in the State 's Jordan used to be a college professor . Jordan 's grandfather used to be a great war hero but since his father was labeled a coward he has set out to try to redeem the family name . It becomes his assignment to travel into the mountains of Spain hook up with a band of guerillas and to blow a pivotal bridge during an upcoming campaign . Not being as familiar with the Spanish Civil War as I would like have been before reading this novel it was a little hard at first to try to figure out who was fighting and what side Jordan was on . I then found out there are the Fascists vs. the Republic and Jordan is on the side of the Republic . At first I thought that members of the Republic were Communists with the ideals they were preaching and since the Russians were advising them but then when they said some disparaging things about Communists that made me think otherwise . The guerilla band he joins up with is led by a man named Pablo who at one time used to be great leader but recently has lost his nerve . He no longer is as interested in the cause as he once was and now would rather tend to his horses instead . He once led this band on a successful assault on a train and everybody in the band still seems to consider this their crowning achievement . Pablo is still very smart but nobody now knows if he can continue to be trusted to lead them . His female companion Pillar is really the one who has held the band together for the last few months of the war but she lacks Pablo 's cunning . She says she has a little bit of gypsy in her and at times she tells people 's fortunes not all of them however are good . She is very feisty and was probably something in her day when she used to date several matadors . The rest of the band is made up of an old man named Anselmo who Jordan loves very much and is one of the few people he really can rely on . Then there is a few younger men a pair of competent brothers plus a strong and loyal man named Agustin as well as a gypsy who for the most part everybody considers useless . Finally there is the young girl named Maria . She was rescued from the fascists during the raid on the train . She is the daughter of a former Mayor . Her hair had all been cut off and she is n't as beautiful as she once was but Jordan immediately falls in love with her the first time he lays eyes on her . In war a few days can sometimes seem like a life time and the pair make the most of what time they have together . Pillar had taken Maria under her wing and had been teaching her how to one day be a good wife . She approves of Jordan and Maria 's union and after the fighting is over she wants him to take Maria away from this place . As the battle nears there are several scrimmages and some great fights . El Sordo 's last stand is very memorable . Hemingway 's descriptions are magnificent . At times Hemingway switches back and forth between Spanish and English but it never seems to be a distraction as he always provides a translation . There are things wrong with the Republic that eventually will lead to their downfall but at this point in the war Hemingway shows them as just little inconsistencies . For instance the Republic does n't seem to believe in religion so it is ironic that all of the band still say their little prayers every time they are in the middle of a battle . The people also want to rule themselves rather than be ruled by the government but they have no trust in one another . If you are not from the same town as these people you will always be considered an outsider and an enemy . There are too many fractions in the Republic . They have some good ideals but they are unable to really bring any of them to life . Jordan figures even if they win they would probably need to get rid of most of the leaders since the majority of the ones remaining are all incompetent or murderers . Both the Fascist and the Republic come off as being very brutal at times . I wonder what Hemingway 's political views really were . I believe he probably had some of the same ideals that Jordan displays . This book will make my list of the top 100 books of all time . ",4
"This is another book you must read before you die if you have such a list in the making . This is why some books are called important with the potential to change both you and the world you live in ",3
"Can I add anything to what has already been said ? Well I find this to be Hemingway 's best piece of literature . The story is interesting though sometimes the dialogue can come across as odd to me it 's from a different time so some difference is to be expected . Especially interesting was the protagonist 's work a perfect example of UW in my opinion and what he did . Read it enjoy it . ",3
"In case you stumble upon this review amidst all of the other droning articles I 'll try to keep mine short.This was my first Hemingway I finished it just recently and man is he overrated . There are moments of greatness within the pages and as for the simple act of creating a story placing characters and orchestrating a chain of events the guy was n't bad.Unfortunately his pretentious writing style bleeds through on nearly every single page so absurdly that it disrupts from the actual story . I loved the characters I was intrigued by the plot but halfway through I realized that I was FORCING myself to continue reading because the poor old bastard kept getting so far gone on his cheesy tangents of love and of the minor backstories of characters found only within the backstories of supporting characters Pilar 's matador 's tale that consumed four or five pages that the story suffered greatly.Hemingway fancied himself a wordsmith I suppose and therefore managed to crowbar the word now about fifty times into a single paragraph often repeating the word up to four times in a row and the truly funny part is that people regard him as a genius for it.So after experiencing Hemingway I can honestly say that I wo n't be going back and I can only envy his success . ",1
"This is by far my favorite book ever . I am sure many other people will lay out the plot for you in their reviews so I will tell you what I loved about it . I love the bravery and leadership of the main character Robert Jordan I loved how Hemingway used people such as the strong willed Pilar and other characters to only make it seem more realistic and I mostly love how Hemingway painted a picture with Robert Jordan that is the example for all people who want to see what bravery is . No author could top this book . ",4
"I read the first 100 pages and the plot of blowing up a bridge was fine although the plot is exceedingly slow . Hemingway does a good job with describing the details of the surroundings . The main character Robert Jordan will have an observation of another character that is insightful . Then the old guide Anselmo will have the same observation . Then the old woman Pilar would have the same observation . Then the guerrilla guard will have the same observation . Why is everyone talking about the exact same observation ? It seems pretty bad writing and a poor understanding of human nature for everyone to be echoing Robert Jordan 's thoughts.But that amaturish style was n't what turned me off of the book . It was the horrible love story . I 'm a woman in my 30s and maybe this kind of tripe would appeal to guys but the love story was not only exceedingly unrealistic but also stupid and insulting to women . I was curious how this horrible love story would end so then I read the last 20 pages of the book . The ending of the love story was even worse than the beginning.This book was not only not insightful about human nature it actually ran counter to human nature.I do like Hemingway 's book The Sun Also Rises . That book is a simple story but well done . I recommend that book over For Whom the Bell Tolls . ",1
"must be where Metallica got the song name from . Anyways this is one of but many authors that like Nirvana singer Kurt Cobain decided to take the easy way out . In the meantime he penned this great literature that is a great book . I do n't care what anybody says the old man and the sea is boring and short and so with that I bid you good day and happy reading ! ",4
"This beautifully written book is often compelling and occasionally trying . At nearly 500 densely written pages I found my edition of the book perhaps overly long but nonetheless admirable . It is the story of an American named Robert Jordan who fights in the mountains outside Madrid during the Spanish Civil War.I read the book at least once when I was young but that was at least thirty years ago . Upon picking it up again I found I remembered little except that the earth moved and that something went amiss during the final scene . I perhaps also remembered at least faintly an extraordinary tale told by a character named Pilar about the fate of the fascist in a Spanish village.Hemingway makes it abundantly clear that he wants to write a true book . By this I think he means that he wants to tell us the truth about the people who fought in the Spanish Civil War and in that goal I believe he succeeds . After reading the book I feel a little as though I was actually there a combatant in the war and that I knew others who fought beside me . This is small t truth synonymous with words such as realistic or factual . Hemingway was not trying to tell the Truth about God.Refusing to romanticize the soldiers who fought for the Spanish Republic he tells us what is good about them and what is bad . It is possible though unlikely that I could write truthfully about the kind of highly educated Americans who I lived with most of my life . But I could never write so vividly or so convincingly about the kind of illiterate or semiliterate Spanish townspeople who inhabit this book . One understands exactly why the good guys lost this war and yet somehow one loves these struggling obscene dirty people all the more for their faults.There are several obvious accomplishments in this book . One is the amazing character Pilar a woman in her late forties or early fifties who comes vividly to life as complex frequently contradictory character who is simultaneously admirable and intolerable . The description of the fascists being slaughtered in a small town by the drunken Pablo is perhaps one of the better passages in all of Hemingway . Another description of a fight on a hill is impossible to put down and of course no one is ever going to forget the scene when the earth moves or the beautiful language that adorns nearly every page of this book.After reading this book I read Of Mice and Men and then picked up Typhoon two beautifully written books which are perhaps significantly better than For Whom the Bell Tolls . Yet neither Conrad nor Steinbeck writes as beautifully as lyrically or as movingly as Hemingway at his best . It is odd perhaps even ironic that a man so obsessed with violence and manly courage should have such a lovely moving prose style . Hemingway inhabited the English language with an ease and skill that even at this stage in his career produced prose that rates as one of the glories of the English language . Some of the descriptions of nature in this book are among the finest I 've ever read particularly when Hemingway turned his attention to pine trees ! Hemingway 's openly admitted love of violence mars this book as do several long meditative passages about the vagaries of life or the character of the rebel soldiers who fought with the Robert Jordan . To his credit Hemingway 's main character finally concedes that though violence is compelling it is nevertheless evil . It is even possible that Hemingway loved not so much manly strength as the ability to survive without giving in to the fear that can destroy a man 's character and lead him to let down not only himself but those who work beside him . Fear must have been a torture to Hemingway sending him into wild fits of depression and chaotic ruminations . He loved and wrote beautifully about those times when one feels calm and brave and settled . I 'm not sure one really needs to face down a bull in order to achieve such a state but I have sympathy for Hemingway 's goals if not his means.A true description about an historical event like the Spanish Civil War is a wonderful gift to bring to a reader and one to savor and enjoy . And at the heart of the book are two characters Robert Jordan and Maria who are tough and admirable . Though I think some of my feminist friends would criticize me for it I nevertheless found Maria believable and I think that there are young women in this world who are as innocent good and true as Maria . If there are really people in this world like Robert Jordan I 've never met them but I suppose it is unfair to fault Hemingway for creating such an admirable hero.I should confess that I did n't really want to like this book mostly because I do n't always care for the tone adopted by so many of the people who most passionately admire Hemingway when they begin singing the praises of their hero . But though I found the going tedious at times nevertheless I was won over by this flawed book . Somehow the lives of the poor Spaniards who lived in the hills of Spain and fought the fascists seem more real and more worthwhile than the lives that most of us in America live today . We are many times more sophisticated but perhaps not quite as likable and I have to admire Hemingway for bringing these people to life so vividly and in such beautiful prose . It must have been extraordinary to know and work beside people who fought to bravely for such a worthy cause . ",4
"I am starting to read these classics now because I goofed off too much in school . As I read sotries like this and the other classics I regret now reading them in school . I missed so much . ' ",3
"Good job of capturing the insanity of military organizations and the horrors of war . Gets a little melodramatic at the end . ",3
"I love this one . Great book . Ive read it 4 times now and each time it gets better and better . You begin to see things you didnt at first and then everything is more clear and its just great . A must have for every book lovers library ",4
"FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS is a masterpiece . This historical fiction from Hemingway is in my opinion far better than the other two Hemingway novels that I have read The Sun Also RisesandA Farewell To Arms and for the first time triggers the same kind of admiration for Hemingway from me that I had always been so puzzled to see from others . If you 're looking for a taste of Hemingway this is the book I would recommend . If you 've read other Hemingway and been less than impressed try this one before you give up on him completely.This long book takes place over just a few days and follows Robert Jordan as he works behind enemy lines during the Spanish Civil War . While containing plenty of suspense and action the primary focus of this book is delving into the psyches of Jordan and the irregulars he recruits for his mission . A stark and honest look into the minds of simple people caught up in the sweeping events of a large war is something Hemingway excels at and it really shows in this book . While at times being perhaps a bit over the top with the rambling and inane thought processes of his characters he seemed to ease up on it a bit with this story instead focusing more on what was relevant and on progressing the story . And personally I liked Hemingway 's use of Spanish and the literal translation during much of the dialogue . Rather than being distracting I felt that this method helped highlight the romantic nature of the Spanish language and simultaneously reminded me of some of the basic Spanish that I had forgotten.The characters in this book are also great . Robert Jordan Maria Pilar Pablo and Anselmo are particularly welldone and unforgettable . Unlike other reviewers I enjoyed the innocence and sweetness of Maria and did n't find her to be unrealistic in either her response to mistreatment or her love for Jordan . Is it that she fell in love so easily ? that she is so blindingly trustful ? that she is universally kind ? or that she manages to not wallow in selfpity that modern day feminists hate about this character ? Pilar and Pablo are both spectacularly done being often hilarious and always intensely complicated . Giving faces to these and the other irregulars in this book helps the reader realize the impact on Individuals that wars can have.As a historical fiction this book is excellent . You 'll want to educate yourself more about the time and the circumstances around the Spanish Civil War while reading this book . Interestingly Hemingway himself was somewhat involved in this war acting as a journalist but also supposedly supporting the Republic 's fight even going so far as to help train young men in the use of modern rifles . The content of the story comes off as being very possible and the battles alluded to come out of real history . Indeed even some of the peripheral characters are historical figures including the welldescribed Andr & eacute Marty known as the Butcher of Albacete that played a significant role toward the end of the book . Nicely grounded in historical fact it makes the reading of this book all that much better.Very highly recommended ! ! ",4
"I do not like to give too high merit to anything be it book movie CD simply because I think the imagination can conjure up things reality can not deliver on . But I feel a responsibilty to share my thoughts my true impressions of the book unbridled by any fear of corruption by doing so.Maybe it was the John Donne quote maybe it was the writing style or maybe it was the incredible moving story that made me directly after finishing the book put it down and think it was one of the greatest things I had ever read . Trying to say WHY would take too long and probably not make much sense to anyone else . But I suppose I owe it to readers to try.Here is what you need to know . This is a love story a war story in a sense a God story but not what you probably are thinking . It powerfully deeply honestly portrays the human experience in all its doubting hating loving sorrowing fullness.Read this book . And give it time because it starts somewhat slow and may turn current readers who want all action and want to be told plainly everything they do n't like to think or discover meaning for themselves ! Even if you do n't like it you wo n't be the worse and at least you can say you 've read one of America 's best novels that I have read . ",4
"There never has and never will be another writer with the lucidity and inestimable genius of Hemingway . Hemingway 's characteristic laconic terse and fluid prose and dialogue shine radiantly throughout this book for the ages . Seeing our country in the midst of the war on terrorism and a growing divisiveness amongst Americans I feel regardless of one 's stance on war For Whom the Bell Tolls is a great book to pick up right now.To stereotype and routinely categorize this great work as nothing more than a war book is to do it a grave injustice . Hemingway touches on among other things love loyalty sacrifice for the greater good rape suicide altruism and social injustice . For Whom the Bell Tolls manifests itself as a book that speaks to the reader in many indescribable ways . Hemingway 's character development is masterful and unparalleled in literature . We come to know not only our intrepid protagonist Robert Jordan moreover we come to know the inner thoughts and feelings of Anselmo Maria Pablo Pilar and Lieutenant Berrendo as Hemingway ingeniously flips from 3rd to 1st person narrative and then back to 3rd perdson on the drop of a dime.Perhaps the only negative of the book is the annoying censoring of curse words throughout the text such as I obscenity in the milk of science . Ironically Hemingway 's hero Robert Jordan fights for the Communist Republicwhich of course mandated censorship and his own book ends up censored . Go figure . That being said I thoroughly enjoyed this powerful tour de force and recommend it highly . ",4
"What could be better than Hemmingway ? More Hemmingway.I learned about this short epilogue on the program Hemmingway in Cuba was broadcast April 6 2013 on my local pbs station . There is a joint effort by Cuban and American scholars to preserve all the materials left at his home in Cuba . I am not a scholar but want to share this with other readers of Hemmingway.This Epilogue for For Whom the Bell Tolls was found in the basement of Finca Vigia.EpilogueIt was night when Golz rode in a staff car on the road down from the pass to El Escorial . ",4
"For most readers the jury is back on Hemmingway you love him or you hate him . For fans of Hemmingway 's prose this novel is a true masterpiece but even those who are n't particularly fond of Hemmingway 's sparse style will find lots to like in For Whom The Bell Tolls.Wrapped in a brisk plot of precombat suspense and the ensuing battle Hemmingway has hidden the definitive antiwar novel . In the three days that we follow Robert Jordan 's efforts for the Republic against the Fascists we watch him develop a love of incredible intensity with the girl Maria then willingly throw everything away for a senseless fight between two equally irrational forces struggling for power in the eve of WWII.The most powerful account of brutality and inhumanity is not attributed to the Fascists but is Pilar 's tale of the early days of the revolution and atrocities carried out by the Republicans the side for which Jordan is risking his life . Although moved by the tale and by Pilar 's excellent account indeed as most reviews comment this selfcontained story of Pilar 's is the strongest part of the novel Jordan can not veer from the path that has been set for him both by his war hero grandfather and by his father Jordan views his father as a coward because he died by suicide a them which runs through the novel . Even his unexpected discovery of Maria and true love can not deflect him from his course of selfdestruction.As an antiwar novel For Whom The Bell Tolls is elegant and subtle . Hemmingway in typical fashion lionizes the warriors . The American Jordan and the guerilla leader El Sordo are depicted as noble men of principle . Even his treatment of the fascist lieutenant Berrendo is sympathetic . Hemmingway 's commentary is an attack on the senselessness of war or this particular war anyway but those who fight that war are largely treated as tragic figures.The characters are among the most complete that I 've encountered in a novel . In that they 're developed using Hemmingway 's sparse style makes the feat all the more impressive . The novel perhaps is a bit long and there are in my opinion some extraneous elements that could have been omitted but the conclusion is a masterpiece . There are not many novels that have had as great an emotional effect on me . A must read . ",4
"My body and most of my brain is in Calgary but there is a part of me at the foot of a limestone cave in the mountains of Spain watching a man named Roberto negotiate aide in a war I 'd never learned about.Vaguely I was aware that in the last century Spain had a civil war . I was not aware it was Republicans vs. Fascists . I ca n't say I knew it was wedged right between the two world wars . I had from time to time wondered why Spain was left out of the second but having never asked I forgot about it.In Hemmingway and Steinbeck both I 'm beginning to understand the very weight of the Communist issue in 1930s America . Accusing someone of being a communist was a very serious charge . Even in Spain Robert is an American on the Republic side of the war a man is called a communist and reacts as though it was his life he is protecting in denying the slander.I think that period writers such as these are really instrumental in keeping history alive . The books are much easier to read than NonFiction for me at least and there are n't enough people around from that time to talk about it anymore.The flip side to appreciating what a fictional author can bring is that as in this only a few players are introduced . Hemmingway 's Roberto was a fantastic character who held dread on equal weight as hope . In the three days the book spanned I felt as if I was living along side Roberto . I watched him plot his offensive understood as he explained it to his comrades rationalized the perils of the pending attack . Mostly though I fell in love with him as Maria did and fell in love with her equally.As exciting as all that is the repercussions of war were heavily felt as I edged on the last pages of the book . It is heavy material and it was n't as quick to get through as I have found other books that I have loved.The 470 could have easily been 900 pages and I would have read it still devouring every word . Give yourself the time to read it as you may have to put it down a few times in the process . ",3
"This is my first exposure to Ernest Hemingway and after reading it I wonder how I could go through eight years of high school and college and not read one Hemingway book . I loved this book ! I have never taken so quickly to a piece of classic literature . Hemingway 's style is powerful evocative and dramatic . And yet none of the prose is overly verbose or bombastic . This tale set over four days in the mountains of Spain during the Spanish Civil War follows Robert Jordan an American fighting in the International Brigade and his preparations for a bridge demolition . During that time he falls in love with the beautiful and tragic Maria as well as befriends the group of guerrillas he is working with . During those four days Jordan loves idealizes and submits to his dutiful fate more passionately than most men ever will . If you have never read Hemingway before I suggest you do so right away . This book is a great one to start with and I know that I will be looking to read more of his works soon . ",4
"This novel bored me . And I like Hemingway 's work . Pilar 's tragic stories go on and on as do pointless conversations in caves with desperate people swearing at each other and hitting each other in the mouth which alas only encourages more conversation instead of silencing it . The constant use of obscenity muck etc . instead of the real swear words is truly wearying and the translation of Spanish terms into thee thou and less bad mean nothing at all to the casual English reader.Nor is Robert Jordan why does Hemingway keep using his full name throughout the novel ? That 's irritating too much help being a typical Hemingway strongandsilenttype who drinks too much enjoys bullfights and lives to sleep with pretty 19yearolds . The earth moved is the best he can do in the supposedly passionate and brief love scenes with Maria who enjoys pouring him more wine while washing his feet . His doubts about doing his duty are neither profound nor convincing . Until well into the novel he 's a tootypical freedom fighter who justifies duty over Eros in dreary inner conversations . Like another reviewer put it I wished a quarter into the novel that he 'd spare me his musings blow the damned bridge and go home . ",1
"This book is as meaningful as it is enjoyable . It presents life in no terms other than reality . The dichotomies that Hemingway explores the anecdotes he tells the characters he creates and the experiences he describe all combine to create a spellbinding work . ",4
"This book should be a must read for everyone . It is one of the top twentyfive books of modern times . ",4
"This book has everything . War Romance and the little known history of the Spanish Civil War.Hemingway is at his best in this book . His keen journalistic eye does n't miss a detail.Although the era he is writting about has long since gone by the reader can not help but be pushed back in time.There is one scene that always sticks in my mind . I think Pablo 's mujer is telling Robert Jordan about a village they cleaned of fascist . The details of the brutality in that section of the book will give any reader a glipse of what war is . ",4
"I listened to this on audio book over several days it felt like forever . I was n't too impressed . It was slow slow and did I mention slow . Then when it was interesting it was n't even worth all the slowness . Wo n't be sampling Hemingway again anytime soon . ",1
"This is Hemingway 's virtual personal account of the Spanish Civil War at the ground level . The central character is an American from Montana who speaks fluent Spanish and is known as the dynamiter . He sides with the republicans as did other Americans such as the Lincoln Brigade and many other westerners and soviets pitted against the Fascists supported by the Nazis and Italians . The American referred to as Roberto or Ingles by the guerilla band joins the band behind enemy lines with the expressed purpose of blowing up a bridge to coincide with a republican offensive . The brutality of war is evident by Maria with the band who was brutalized and raped while her parents were shot just because they were republicans . In contrast demonstrating that war is brutal on both sides Pablo the band 's soddened leader is traumatized with guilt and feelings of defeat that haunt him with own past butchering of townsmen that were friendly to the Fascists . There is a general feeling of despair as the band attempts to regenerate itself to action in the face of an enemy well supported by aircraft and weaponry . Another key character is Pablo 's lady friend Pilar who once associated with a famous bull fighter speaks often of manliness and she takes over the leadership temporarily vacated by Pablo 's morose fall into a drunken stupor . The discussion of Spanish views of manhood provide an opportunity for Hemingway to expose his fascination with bull fighting and machismo that is both courageous and revolting . Time is fleeting although the paperback is almost 470 pages within in the book as an accelerated romance develops between Roberto and Marie that heightens an expectation of loss as the two fall deeply in love . Hemingway consumes the bulk of the book with dialogue within the personalities in the band such as the gypsy and the old man who seems the most dependable and balanced member . Action picks up toward the end of the book as Pablo 's band prepares to take action while the Fascists search the mountains for Pablo 's associate and his band on a neighboring mountain . As Roberto and Pablo 's band seek to destroy the bridge the republican attack formes in the distance . There is an expectation of great loss and the book climaxes with the attack on the bridge and you feel an uncertainness of doom for the central characters as the end is abrupt and almost shocking . The book is a classic and very realistic it may be too long for younger readers but it certainly outlines the tragedies of war and perhaps underlines the horror of Civil War . One of Senator John McCain 's favorite books as noted on the Imus in the Morning radio show last week . ",4
"This was my second time to read it . I watched the movie with Gary Cooper and Ingrid Bergman and had to read the book again . Of course the book is better than the movie . Great read love Hemingway books . ",4
"I happen to think Hemingway is one of the most overrated novelists of the 20th century but this particular book is a good read . Hemingway does deal with many subjects such as duty brutalization love or loyalty all the while telling a good moving story . Not my vote for the great American novel but worth reading . ",3
"For Whom the Bell Tolls is no disappointment to a fan of Hemingway 's terse truthful prose . Here he employs it to explain the events of a few days during the Spanish Civil War . The plot is simple an American fighting for the republic joins a small guerrilla unit in the hills under orders to blow up a bridge at the beginning of a great assault on the fascists . The American also falls in love with a young Spanish girl thus allowing Hemingway to explore his favorite combination of themes love and war.Hemingway is in my view one of the most moving and profound writers of all time . In this novel he aptly captures the emotions and motives of those who risk their lives at war and along the way offers some extraordinarily memorable stories of both bravery and brutality.To me the novel 's main weakness is the love story . The protagonist 's love interest as in all of Hemingway 's novels is young 19 years old in this case beautiful naive and ignorant . She worships Robert Jordan and obeys his every command much as a puppy . Having no mind of her own she is wholly contented by serving Jordan in ways such as washing his socks and and drying out his sleeping bag.The only other oddity in the novel is Hemingway 's habit of translating Spanish literally . For example he uses thou and you to differentiate between the Spanish speaker 's use of tu and Usted . He also uses such nonsensical phrases as I have much hunger as a translation for the Spanish tengo mucho hambre and What passes with thee ? for Qu & eacute te pasa ? . I found that a bit distracting.On the whole however I found the novel remarkable . Hemingway 's ability to pare down complex ideas and events into such simple powerful prose is unsurpassed . ",3
"A very intense tale of war and the local people involved in the cause fighting for their country however they can . ",3
"I was expecting to loathe this book . It was nothing like I expected.Yes For Whom the Bell Tolls is about war . There are all the horrors of war in this book . But nothing was extraneous gratuitous undeserved . And the book was about so much more than just war . Hemingway delves into relationships and honor and courage and heroism . It is a great book . ",4
"I do enjoy the book . My issue is not with the book but with the people who altered it to suit their sensibility . If you do n't like the langauge used in the book that is fine but do n't change every curse word to unprintable unmentionable because you and want you and your children to live in a bubble . You are ruining something that is perfect as it is . You lack the creative ability to create anything on your own so you believe changing curse words into clever terms makes you an artist . Whoever edited this book need be shot and be sent back to whatever community college academic standpoint they came from where they believe the world is fair and things should all be politically correct.NEVER CHANGE THINGS TO SUIT YOUR SENSIBILITY ! ",0
"What do you say about such a classic . Many classic writers are difficult to read but EH takes you through the story with brilliant ease and depth if characters . ",4
"I 'm a middleaged middleclass guy . I read this recently since it has a reputation as one of the great Amerian novels and my particular HS required no Hemingway . I figured the time had come.So now having read it I think For Whom the Bell Tolls was an important milestone something of a product of its times . There was not yet such a body of antiwar or humanist literature as there is nowperhaps Hemingway played a role in creating that . Still it is not just an antiwar book intelligent people have known a long time as Sherman put it that war is simply brutality that can not be made pretty . So this is not Hemingway 's main point . If anything he even sounds prowar in the brief sections that justify the Spanish Civil War and the fight against the Fascists . He seems a little blind to the pact the Spanish Republicans made with the devil i.e . the Russian communists but history had not yet proven the bloodthirstiness and corruption of the Soviet Union.Hemingway 's main theme in this book is personal honor and how personal concerns affect one 's perceptions and may override original idealistic motives . The hero American dynamiter Robert Jordan has snuck behind Fascist lines to help destroy a bridge and aid a planned Republican frontal attack . But three things happen his guerilla teammates are led by a very disillusioned old veteran who argues bitterly with his tough old wife and Robert falls in love Maria with a refugee they are sheltering raped and nearly killed by the Fascists . Finally his spying reveals the front is losing the element of surprise . In this dangerous situation he wants to call it all off and retreat to a life of happiness with Maria . Sorry no further plot will be revealed here.This way we get to study two different couples . We learn that Pablo and Pilar the guerillas have killed many people upclose and personal . Pablo seems to have enjoyed it . Pilar did less handson killing but she and the others are still dedicated to the cause . Now here comes an outsider a handsome young American with no real dog in this fight bringing the front closer just when Pablo has had enough . Even worse he falls for Maria and sleeps with her in his own bag outside the cave . The love scenes though not very graphic are pretty juicy for their time . Pilar tries to bolster Robert 's resolve even plotting against her husband . Maria is lost without Robert and will follow him anywhere . But where will Robert end up going ? He has committed himself and he wants to fulfill his duty as a matter of honor . What destiny will bring the best honor for both himself and Maria ? Having sacrificed so much so far what further sacrifice do any of these people need to maintain their honor ? Unlike many contemporary books FWTBT does not have a big overwhelming climax . Instead the ending unfolds in a way that you might have expected as you read it . This unfortunately left me a little cold unable to decide whether I Love the Book the way I do some others . But it is an indispensable milestone . Perhaps better read if you are not already so jaded or antiwar that you ca n't conceive of a cause worth fighting for . ",4
"Someone should rush into George W Bush 's office with a copy of this book . It 's not antiwar but it is about what Wilfird Owen called 'the pity of war ' the terrible ironic waste of camaraderie and love and stories and landscapes and the value of the life of just one man.So many reviews summarise the plot so I 'll refrain . It 's almost like Hamlet though Robert Jordan has to blow a bridge but four acts go by before he acts . In that space he and we learn what the act will really mean nothing in terms fo the war but everything to him . he 's like a matador int eh pause between the bull 's turn and his impact . The whole book is lit up with Robert 's mortality.And it sounds amazing lyrical not entirely spare but with halfheard rhythms as steady as pulses.I liked Maria . I know I 'm swimming against the feminist stream but why not goodness in a heroine instead of the tiresome feistiness we 've all seen so much of lately ? Pilar however is not tiresome and to meet her is alone enough to put this book at the top of any list of tO read books you may be making . She shines because it is SHE whoo is Hemingway yes folks he was fat and a bit foodobssessed . And she is the storyteller . Hemingway was interested in that kind of transgression read Garden of Eden . But read this first . ",4
"Hemingway 's magnificent novel has something for everyone an action tale an antiwar protest a love story subtle ironies a magnificent short story within the novel political criticism of communism and fascism a philosophy of life and beautiful descriptions of life that leave you gasping . You will learn a lot about yourself by considering which elements you notice most strongly . Reading For Whom the Bell Tolls is like holding up a mirror to your soul.On the surface this is a book about 3 days and nights of war . But with the action packed into that time and extensive use of flashbacks it becomes a tapestry of all humankind . After you start to notice the individual threads in the tapestry be sure to step back and see the whole . For the remarkably balanced and connected artistry of the themes and directions in the story is what makes this book great.If you are disturbed by descriptions of violence brutality and inhumanity you will not enjoy this book.Robert Jordan is an American who has joined the republican side of the Spanish civil war . In normal life he teaches Spanish . Now he is transformed into a demolitions expert who can blow up trains and bridges . With an offensive coming he moves behind the fascist lines to join a guerilla group to blow a key bridge during an offensive that begins in 3 days . The rest of the story covers the action of preparing for and attacking the bridge . Along the way you will become acquainted with the characters in the guerilla band as well as Jordan . Jordan will find himself moved in many ways to become more alive and fully connected than he has ever been before . He will experience the full range of human emotion and life within these 3 days.If you do n't know about the Spanish Civil War you should be aware that it was the main warmup for World War II . The fascists under Franco were supported by Hitler and Mussolini . Hitler wanted to try out his new weapons and finetune tactical theory before attacking the rest of Europe . Communists from around the world flocked to the republic as did prodemocracy volunteers . The republican forces had great popular support but had little war materiel and fought a losing campaign that created great anguish in the international community.Civil wars are one of the worst forms of human conflict . Because the people are so much alike they tend to behave with greater savagery towards one another . With modern weapons of mass destruction the effects can be awful beginning with the American Civil War . Hemingway does a great job of showing the essential sameness of the forces on both sides in human terms and takes away the meaning of their causes to show the greater importance of their humanity . The book reminds me in this aspect very much of All Quiet on the Western Front the great antiwar novel about trench warfare in World War I.As is usual with Hemingway the writing is spare effective and graceful . Stylists will be delighted ! Why should you read this book today ? You will probably not fight in a civil war . Or will you ? For in fact humans are as divided in their competitions as ever . They just normally do n't involve bloodshed . There is great glory in the conflict but even greater potential in their cooperation . Ask yourself about where you compete now and what could be accomplished if you focused on constructive cooperation instead . Think about this concerning your family your love your work your hobbies and your volunteer activities . Like the quote above wherever there is one of us the other is present . If you start to represent each other 's interests and connect with one another the sum of mankind is greater and so is each person . You will also love life more ! ",4
"This is a unique novel in the Hemingway collection it has a plot . This is the longest of his novels though the easiest to describe . The Hemingway style is not as lean as in earlier works one might even say it is pleasantly plump in comparison as Papa himself was at the time of writing . I 'll never forget my first reading of this book . One of those books you put down and just hold your breath with the memory of it all . This might best be described as Hemingway fare for non Hemingway fans . Though Hemingway fans like it too but it will always be number three to them . The Sun Also Rises is perhaps one of the more difficult books to summarize and Hemingway 's style is so new in it that the book created a buzz that has still not died down . What was not said in that first book left some feeling a bit famished . Others were intrigued by this new kind of writing that held its cards so close to its chest . In this book you get a more conventional novel of a novel though the events described in it are very powerfully told . It is fun to see pictures of Hemingway as a reporter at this time . A world famous novelist in the field . This book along with A Farewell to Arms prove no American knew better how to convey by written words that nasty busines of war better than Hemingway . Robert Jordan is one of the least talked about Hemingway characters ever . Perhaps because he is a character invented to serve a plot . You will love this book of fighting and love in the Spanish mountains . John Donne himself I think would have proudly read and enjoyed this . ",4
"Robert Jordan is one of the most exciting interesting and principled fictional characters I 've ever had the pleasure to read about . Set during the fascist take over in 1930s Spain For Whom the Bell Tolls is a novel that will easily stand the test of time not much of a prediction since it was written in 1940 and is one of the finest books in the English language . Jordan an American is the main character who comes to Europe to fight the good fight against Franco 's military thugs . The reader is given a fascinating indepth look into his psyche where he reflects on his fellow soldiers plans for warmaking and the justifications and rationalizations along the war trail.Pablo 's another character who is burned into your consciousness long after you 've finished reading . A fellow rebel they were n't rebels in the true sense since they were fighting for a government they had duly elected however they have all the characteristics of guerrillas in that the Spanish military waged an immediate and violent war against that very democratically elected government the reader is left wondering just how committed he is to the cause . There is an incredible flashback story detailing Pablo 's orchestration of the sadistic torture and humiliation of a group of wealthy fascist sympathizers . The vivid description involved in this passage is nothing short of extraordinary.Of course the true democrats fighting for the Republic against the well financed and better armed fascist military eventually lose the war but having that foreknowledge does nothing to detract from the cliffhanger like feelings brought about by the various battles and journeys the rebel crew embarks on.This is the best and most accessible of all of Hemingway 's works . If someone is interested in reading Hemingway For Whom the Bell Tolls is the perfect starting point . As for Hemingway 's style of prose what more can be said except that it 's brilliant enthralling and readily accessible to the common reader unlike Joyce and Faulkner . In my opinion every American should give some time to Hemingway 's For Whom the Bell Tolls . Commitment intelligence sacrifice and fighting for the well being of your fellow man is all there along with a terrific love story . Given that the average American attention span is like a ferret on a double espresso Dennis Miller very few will give books like For Whom the Bell Tolls a try with the mass of pop TV garbage out there.An excellent companion to the book is the documentary film The Good Fight narrated by Studs Terkel . It gives a mini history lesson of the Spanish Civil War and specifically focuses on a group of U.S. citizens the Abraham Lincoln Brigade who heroically went abroad and fought along side the democrats against Franco and his fascist military thugs . ",4
"Usually even with the best books I would say that this book is not for everyone . Not so with this novel . I truly believe that this book IS for everyone . Unlike so much other 20th century literature one need not be well read to get something out of it.The story is of two of man 's most cherished and hated traditions Love and War . The tragedy is that we have had so much of the latter and so little of the former . We see much of both in For Whom The Bell Tolls . It is a tender story of two young people who just want to live a normal life together during the Spainish civil war but who are prevented from doing thus due to their being in the wrong place at the wrong time.It is incredulous to me that there were other reviewers who found this book boring . I can only surmise that anyone who would find a novel such as this boring will not find anything exciting unless it has Arnold Scharzenegger swinging around a machine gun . But that I believe is the fault of the reader 's lack of attention span and can not be blamed on Hemingway.The author writes that The world is a fine place and worth the fighting for and I hate very much to leave it . I would agree . Anyone else who agrees and anyone who has a passion and zest for life should read this book . One of the best examples of American literature in the 20th century . ",4
"Controversy has swirled around Ernest Hemingway 's masterpiece since the day it was published . For Whom the Bell Tolls was nominated for the Pulitzer Prize in 1941 and the Pulitzer committee agreed unanimously to name the book as the winner of the fiction category . Board president Nicholas Murray Butler however overruled the committee on the grounds that he felt the book to be profane and offensive . No award in the fiction category was given that year . The Pulitzer committee sans Butler did go on to award Hemingway in 1953 for The Old Man and the Sea . Butler has since been widely criticized for his partisan politics and racial beliefs during his 43 year stint as president of Columbia University . Hemingway also won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1954.For Whom the Bell Tolls is Ernest Hemingway 's seminal novel of the Spanish Civil War . Beginning in 1937 Hemingway traveled to Spain to cover the war as a reporter . In the years before WWII Spanish Republicans backing the established Spanish Republic fought the fascist Nationalist forces of General Francisco Franco . The Republicans received backing from the Soviet Union and various organizations of the Marxist movement among others . The rising forces of Nazi Germany and Italy backed Franco . The fascists under Franco won . Franco established a dictatorship and then went on to rule Spain with an iron hand until his death in 1975.It is easy to get hung up on all the politics involved in this book who is backing which side etc . Remember the time frame of the book preWWII and know that the story is essentially human . It is about ideals loyalty love sacrifice and honor in the face of loss and death . Robert Jordan is an American who joins the guerrillas fighting on the side of the republic as a dynamiter . Jordan 's goal is to blow a key bridge right after a Republican attack starts against the Fascists . He meets up with the antiFascist cell in the area which is headquartered in a wellhidden cave . Pilar is the wife of Pablo who ostensibly is in charge but Pilar runs the show . Pablo is tired burned out and dangerous to the cause after years of war and atrocities committed on both sides and Pilar takes the reins . While coordinating the attack with the cell Robert Jordan meets and falls in love with Maria a young woman adopted by the cell after her family is decimated by the fascists and she is raped by their soldiers . Much like the principal characters in A Farewell to Arms the wartime romance is accelerated and Jordan undergoes a transformation due to his love for Maria . He begins to question his role in an increasingly futile conflict . He spiritually takes Maria for his wife with hopes and dreams for the future . When it becomes evident that the guerrilla attack will be doomed Jordan must decide between escaping with Maria or staying true to his ideals and do his duty with honor in the face of impending disaster . The entire story takes place in four days.I really liked For Whom the Bell Tolls . It gets beyond the politics and the ideologies and more into the nature of war showing that there is good and bad on both sides of any conflict . Hemingway points out that the best soldiers do n't necessarily win a war the ones with the biggest weapons do . To make war all you need is intelligence . But to win you need talent and material . Other memorable gems from the text include Nothing is done to oneself that one does not accept and If you stop complaining and asking for what you never will get you will have a good life . A good life is not measured by any biblical span . The apt title itself comes from the John Donne quote And therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls It tolls for thee . Thus is the nature of any conflict regardless of the politics involved . One reason Jordan an American is fighting in Spain is because he is concerned with the rise of bigotry and fascism in his own country . This belief is made all the more ironic by the treatment of the book by the Pulitzer committee and Nicholas Murray Butler in 1941 on the very eve of America 's entry into WWII against Nazi Germany.Do not be intimidated by For Whom the Bell Tolls . On the surface it reads like a great adventure story with compelling characters . It is so much more than that however . As with the very best of novels its themes and messages are truly timeless ringing true during the Spanish Civil War WWII Vietnam and today . This is an excellent book and I recommend it very highly . ",4
"Who am I to comment on the prose of Ernest Hemingway ? How can I add to the other 390 people who have read The Old Man And The Sea ? How would you like to read Ernest Hemingway 's own words ? Hemingway gives us a rare opportunity to understand the nature of his writing in the book Ernest Hemingway on Writing . I am sure that Hemingway did not intend his private letters to become public but this reader is thankful . The Old Man And The Sea places the reader in the moment because of Hemingway 's intent . Listen to his words about story Make the story so real beyond any reality that it will become a part of the readers experience . Listen to what Hemingway says about place Convey Everything every sensation sight feeling place and emotion to the reader . Listen to his belief in character I want them to sound as though they really happened . The Old Man and The Sea is only 127 pages but conveys a old fisherman 's entire world Prose should read easy and simply and seem short and yet have all the dimensions of the visible world and the world of a mans spirit . Hemingway pulls us into the story by his detailed description of the old mans boat The sail was patched with flour sacks and furled it looked like the flag of permanent defeat . Many months have passed since the old man has proven his skill while other successful fisherman of that day were already in and had butchered the marlin out and carried them laid out full length across two planks with two men staggering at the end of each plank . Everything in the olds mans life began to lack purpose and fiction filled in the gaps There was no cast net and the boy remembered when they had sold it . But they went through this fiction every day . There was no pot of rice and fish and the boy knew that too . On land the old man was just an old man but in his boat he was transformed They were strange shoulders still powerful although very old and the neck was still strong too and the creases did not show so much . The sea gave him hope The old man always thought of her as feminine and as something that gave great favours and if she did wild or wicked things it was because she could not help them . The great fish lived in a world unknown to most except the old man Nothing showed on the surface of the water but some patches of yellow sunbleached Sargasso weed and the purple formalized iridescent gelatinous bladder of a Portuguese manofwar floating close beside the boat . Death of the great fish was near and He was bright in the sun and his head and back were dark purple and in the sun the stripes on his sides showed wide and light lavender . If you love the spoken word and want to be transported into the world of an old man and a great fish The Old Man And The Sea is a mustread . Classic prose never gives up its richness to passing years . ",4
"I became hooked on Hemingway long ago when I was in college and this is the book that got me hooked . In English composition we were being taught how to write interesting sentences for instance how many adjectives you could use in describing a person walking down the street . Then I read Hemingway and realized you could write He walked down the street because walking was n't the important thing . The important thing was what was in the heart of the person walking down the street . When Hemingway won the Nobel Prize the committee mentioned THE OLD MAN AND THE SEA but it would be hard to imagine Hemingway winning the Nobel Prize and becoming one of the three giants of twentieth century American literature without FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS . I would recommend this book but be careful you just might get hooked on Hemingway . ",4
"I 'm writing this review as the result of an experiment . I decided to test my theory that no matter how good a book or symphony or painting or aria or whatever have you someone somewhere is going to think it is a piece of crap . I have observed this phenomenon in my one thousand plus speaking engagements where typically I will receive hundreds of glowing reviews and then there will be one disgruntled person who thinks I should be thrown out the window or fed to the alligators.Here you have my favorite novel from a lifetime of reading voraciously Hemingway 's FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS . A novel that has it all story character historical background description dialogue love story thematic subtext . And above all that it is pure poetry . And yet in reading the reviews on Amazon I see not merely one but several poor souls who just never got it . One lady had to keep a dictionary next to her to get through Hemingway 's vocabulary . Too many syllables for her I guess . How many syllables are there in ignoramus ? One example of how subjective it all is Hemingway writes as though he is speaking Spanish even though he is writing in English . I am in awe of his ability to do this and in fact one of the reviewers a native Spanish speaker confirms that Hemingway is perfectly accurate in his translation . Still another brilliant reviewer does n't get it thinks that Hemingway must be illiterate.Am I being a snob ? I prefer not to think so . I just think it illustrates a wonderful quality of human beings that they can and will disagree on just about anything . I simply want it to be known that this reviewer gives this book a tenstar review . More than any movie FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS makes the hair stand up on the back of my neck . The reaction is visceral look that up in your dictionary . If you have not read it do n't wait order the damn thing right away . It will enrich your life beyond descriptionor not ! ",4
"For Whom the Bell Tolls is perhaps one of the greatest books of the 20th Century . Set in revolutionary Spain about 1933 or so the book covers less than a week of real time as American Republican Partisan Robert Jordan assists a band of guerrillas in blowing up a bridge in preparation for a major Republican attack . Hemingway is a master storyteller and the weaving of love life death and the horrors and deceit of war are well developed . You know the ending at the beginning and yet the development of the story and characters are so rich and so complete that there is little to do but wistfully tear up during the last chapter . The book is a page turner and a must read treasure of 20th Century literature . ",4
"In the team photo of 'best books I 've ever read ' I feel a desire to reread this one every 10 years or so . It 's definitely a 'love it or hate it ' effort in particular the language used can be offputting as Hemingway tries to convey the beauty of the Spanish language through the use of archaic English . I think it works though the necessary linguistic convolutions needed to express obscenities gets tedious.The plot is wellconstructed giving an adequate amount of motion as it moves between the love story and the action sequences . Hemingway 's flair for description are on full display whether it 's the scenery military weapons food or people he gets to the heart of the matter swiftly and decisively.The themes Hemingway pursues throughout his career are present in this work androgyny suicide the outdoors shooting and depression are all rolled into it . These themes provide layering and texture that helps propel the novel forward without dipping into an emotional morass.A book to treasure by a master of the art . ",4
"Hemingway spans quite range . If you have just finished reading The Great Gatsby and are interested in the jaded boredwithlife spoiled and rich who drink and drink read The Sun Also Rises . If you 've just finished Dr. Blade # 57 you like senseless action and just want to say you 've read Hemingway try To Have and Have Not . But if like me you come from a background of JRR Tolkien RL Stevenson HG Wells and Jack London and perhaps you have already read a few Nick Adams tales or The Old Man and the Sea then do n't be daunted by this story 's length this is your book.While it 's true this book slowed down a few times that rang true . It mirrored the reality of my military experience . Then again there are some chapters of this book burn into the memory how the Communists first dealt with people after taking their hometown the stand they took on the hilltop the final scene and others . There characters were clear the action realistic the inaction tense . Read it . ",4
"Warning this review gives away the very end of the book so if you have not read the book do n't read this review.So first what I liked was just about everything . This was a well written easy to read book . My edition was 470 pages and I had it read in 2 days . The story sucks you in pretty well . I even was able to tolerate the romantic parts and there are lots of them when Robert Jordan falls in love with the young lady Maria . Usually I roll my eyes and skip past the slop but this was not too bad . The ending at the bridge was extremely well done . When I read about Robert Jordan down there planting his explosives near panic because he still hears shooting up above trying to calm himself down it really did make my own heart beat a little faster . No book has done that to me in a very long time.So here 's what I did n't like . First it seems like twothirds of the book was a buildup to the attack on the bridge . After a while I was thinking get on with it already . The big one however that ruined the book for me was the last few pages . Robert Jordan blew up the bridge reunited with what was left of his group reunited with Maria and was fleeing when a tank shell knocked him off his horse and the horse collapsed on top of him breaking his leg . Now in this part Maria is absolutely right . She wants to cut the load off one of the horses and throw Robert Jordan on its back . Sure his leg was broken.. so what ? That 's a nonfatal wound . He was n't losing any blood as far as I could tell from the text . Sure he probably would have lost his leg but so what ? Better than losing his life . I really hate what he does here . He gives up . He drives Maria away breaking her heart for life . Then he lies there with a gun waiting for the enemy so he can go out in a blaze of glory.Maybe Hemingway meant for this to be noble and heroic . Not for me . To me it was stupid unnecessary and downright cowardly . You see I 'm not suicidal and I ca n't get past the fact that this joker did not have a fatal injury . He could have lived and escaped . He had done his bit for the cause in blowing up the bridge . He had a woman Maria who loved him and was willing to marry him . He had a good secure job waiting for him back in the States . The only downside for him is that he may have lost one leg . Big deal . To me in throwing all that away and committing suicide Robert Jordan ended up a despicable coward . His little suicidal ending may have killed one enemy officer . A suicidal ending like his is appropriate if you are inches from death better to take one of them with you on the way out . But Robert Jordan was NOT near death ! He just had a busted leg . So he 's an idiot and did not deserve Maria 's love . The only possible benefit I can see is that maybe IF he managed to kill that enemy officer it allowed the group with Maria a little more time to get away . But they were all behind enemy lines anyway so I 'm not sure how much that matters.So to sum it all up I really enjoyed this book up to the last few pages . I was so let down by that ending that I took a star off and I give it 4 out of 5 . ",3
"For Whom the Bell Tolls tells the story of young American Spanish teacher who goes to volunteer in the Spanish civil war . The entire novel takes place over 72 hours in which Robert Jordon the young American is responsible as part of a bigger attack to bomb a bridge and by that ensure that the Fascists wo n't be able to send reinforcements after the attack has begun . During those intense 72 hours Robert Jordon falls in love with Maria a Spanish girl whose family was murdered by the Fascists . Is n't it amazing how Hemingway 's characters always manage to fall in love faster than it takes one to finish smoking a cigarette ? The story follows Robert Jordon 's preparations for the attack and his relationship with Maria and the guerrilla fighters who will assist him with the attack.I am fairly puzzled by this novel which is considered by many to be Hemingway 's best . It offers brilliant observations into the mind of his solider and the psychological aspects of participating in war and how Jordon copes with the hardships of it . While reading some parts of this novel I was fully absorbed and captivated . In others I felt it was rather longwinded . Perhaps some editing would have been handy . Although I do n't think it is Hemingway 's best I do recommend it to Hemingway 's fans . ",2
"Of course For Whom the Bell Tolls is in English but everyone speaks Spanish . Hemingway tries to create Spanish sounding English by stretching the syntax of English nearly to its breaking point by rendering Spanishism into odd English phrases like what passes with thee ? for que pasa a common Spanish greeting.Hemingway also uses archaic English usages to present forms that exist in Spanish but are gone from English like thee and thou for the second person pronoun . It makes for strange but captivating reading . Here is a writer rendering English into Spanish forms . The results are startling and not always enjoyable but it always gives you the impression that you have entered another world.If the novel was written in more fluid English the result would not have been so unusual . The very clumsiness of the language reminds the reader that this is a novel that is taking place in another somewhat more formal language . And the English bears that imprint.When we read For Whom the Bell Tolls we can see English both reaching into its past to create diction of current usage as well as using an odd and foreign syntax to give the illusion of another language . Often this effect was criticized . But an open reading of this novel shows what an effective technique this is and how well it does the heavy lifting of expressing another culture 's values on the level of language from one tongue to another . ",3
"First off I am not a literature expert and do not claim to know all the finer details present in this book . What I do know is that as an engineer I enjoy reading especially classics and this book has given me confidence in Hemingway as one of the best authors in American literature.My first and only experience with Hemingway before was The Old Man and the Sea in high school . Part of the problem may have been in high school but I was honestly not impressed . However since that time I watched the movie In Love and War I have found Hemingway more interesting but still did n't have time to read him until I found For Whom the Bell Tolls . I think this book is just fantastic . The detail that goes into this narrative makes the book hard to put down and very full of meaning.The conflict that the hero Robert Jordan goes through internally externally and mentally form the basis of what has to be one of the best character studies I 've seen in a novel . I also find the historical perspective quite fascinating as a person who enjoys history and culture . The Spanish Civil War is something that is overlooked in our education and I find that even the fictional account here gives insight into the larger issues faced even if the story is focused on the inner conflict of the main character.This book really shows the inferiority of modern novels and will definitely drive me to continue to read Hemingway . The only question is what next . I ca n't imagine anything being better than For Whom the Bell Tolls . My only complaint is in the style of the ending . While it serves an interesting purpose I do n't feel it quite lives up to the quality of the rest of the book but the concept is fantastic . ",4
"This is the first Hemingway book I 've read and I recommend it . For Whom the Bell Tolls covers a period of three full days during the Spanish Civil War following primarily a young American professor of Spanish working as a guerrilla explosives expert on the Communist side although as we discover not a Communist himself . The book is wellwritten as one would expect of a classic although not quite as terse as I expected given Hemingway 's reputation but certainly missing the flowery language of many earlier classics and I suppose that 's the point.On the merits of the story alone this is a good book . It 's a war story but do n't read it for the action scenes which are few and far betweenfar more time is spent getting to know the characters their lifestyle living in a cave in the mountains behind fascist lines and their relationships . There 's some backstory dealing with the start of the war and some philosophizing on life love the morality of killing in wartime and so forth . Philosophizing in a novel generally bores me but kudos to Hemingway for writing these passages the way a person 's internal voice well mine anyway would actually sound Robert Jordan 's thought processes sound like they come from a rational selfaware sort of man in a war zone rather than an author writing essays in the comfort of his home . There are a couple windows on the larger picture as well my favorite section of the book deals with the myriad difficulties one of the guerrillas has getting into and through territory controlled by his own side.The characters here are quite welldeveloped especially the protagonist although his love interest Maria seems like little more than a vehicle for masculine wishfulfillment most of the time except for the priceless scene where she informs him that she 's too sore for sex . At least there is another much betterdeveloped female character to balance that out . Descriptions while not flowery are quite vivid . I learned a bit about Spanish culture and history although my feeling is that Hemingway was writing for an audience who already knew the basics of the war his story is a microcosm of the conflict requiring readers to do more research to really understand it.I would have liked to see a bit more resolution at the end who survived the day at least ? but my only real gripe is Hemingway 's direct and sometimes inaccurate rendering of Spanish dialogue . His goaltrying to give readers a feel for the Spanish languageis reasonable but it results in characters saying stilted things that sound ridiculous in English and sometimes are just plain incorrect . For instance they say rare when they mean strange that they do n't want to molest someone when they want to avoid annoying them raro in Spanish means strange and molestar means to annoy one would think that a writer like Hemingway must understand the concept of false cognates . And while I understand his use of the thou form in an attempt to show the difference between formal and informal forms of address in Spanish he uses it inconsistently and statements like I love thee in a novel set in the 20th century are just bizarre . For me the translation quickly became annoying and distracting jolting me out of the story as I found myself translating characters ' statements into Spanish to make sense of them.Still if you can get past what another reviewer has aptly called the goofy English this is certainly a worthy read . Lovers of classics are likely to approve all of Hemingway 's editorial decisions and for the rest this is a fun way to get to know one of the most famous literary novelists of the 20th century . Even if you did n't like classics in school this one is worth a shot . ",3
"Hemingway published FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS in 1940 just after the end of the Spanish Civil War . Surely one of Hem 's goals in writing this novel was to capture in fiction the full human and political complexity of this war which was for a time the great international cause . This may explain why this novel despite its great craftsmanship and virtuosity reads a little long . Hem you see had to get everything in.IMHO the best feature of this terrific book is its wonderful Spanish characters . These participate in the war which is a great cause for Robert Jordan the novel 's protagonist . But they participate because of family loyalty fascist war crimes or class rage and soldiering is mostly peripheral to their personalities . What the reader remembers is not their support of the Republic but the integrity of Anselmo the dignity of Fernando the humor of Agustin the simple loving sincerity of Maria the harsh surface of Pilar and the murderous treachery of Pablo . These are basically ordinary Spaniards caught in a gruesome tragedy not ideologues or idealists who are transformed or energized by the cause.Hem also handles Robert Jordan skillfully . When Jordan first appears he seems to be concerned only with his duty to the cause which on this mission is to blow up a bridge . But quickly Jordan meets the loving Maria . Then through this relationship Hem explores Jordan 's thoughts and feelings on life and death . While Jordan is not an extraordinary man with breakthrough thoughts he is an extraordinary character who thanks to Maria both examines the rationale for risking his life and identifies the beauty of what may be its final few days.There are many great scenes in this novel . Among my favorites are the appearance of the planes and Pilar at fireside telling the story of her matador lover . Andsurprise ! Hemingway is funny in FWTBT not in a hilarious Robin Williams style but with the dexterity of a witty companion . With Hemingway 's misogyny competitiveness alcoholism and depression now raised to critical prominence I was surprised to see that the man could be a good guy.FWTBT is number 74 on the Modern Library 's list of 100 Best Novels a bit low in my estimation . ",4
"In this novel the sum is more consequential than the parts . That is if you read this novel chapter by chapter expecting to find some amazing answer or significance it probably is not there or very subtle at best . However if you spent some time reflecting after having read the novel for a bit then the novel has a greater deal of substance to it mainly for the larger issue that is covered in the book what death and duty means for individuals in war time . We see this issue repeatedly in both the dialogue and inner thoughts of Robert Jordan and Hemingway has a superb way of intertwining these two forms of prose and narration something most authors probably could n't do as effectively.Perhaps the biggest negative in the work is the depiction of Maria as too submissive and shallow . She seemingly just goes along with whatever Robert Jordan wants and is not able to speak a stronger voice against anything the characters are experiencing . Not only this but she does n't bring anything to any of the other characters and has few lines of importance . Certainly the fact that she has had a rough background and has endured personal tragedy being raped the death of her mother and father plays a part in her submissiveness but there are times that she comes across as just a stock damselindistress type who will do anything for the hero or in the case of Robert Jordan tragic hero.Robert Jordan appears to be a tragic hero because he questions many times why he is there and why he is seeing this mission through . He goes back and forth in his conscious about what blowing up a bridge means and contemplates the duty of why people kill when they have to in a war time setting . He does n't appear to be completely sold on this cause in Spain and while he seemingly never leaves this area physically mentally he challenges the essence of being there time and time again so he can reassure himself that this is the just thing to do and for the right cause.This is not an easy read in the sense that there is much more to what is going on than meets the eye . There are n't big explosions every page or intense actions scenes with many fighting war most of the action is internal and underscored . However this is a powerful book in many points if just for the effort of Hemingway to really get inside a protagonist 's mind and show the insight that goes with it.One final note about this particular edition Scribner paperback edition from 1995 I do n't know if other 's editions were the same but there were a few typos in this one . For this reason if you plan on getting For Whom the Bell Tolls I recommend you choose another edition . ",3
"It 's difficult to point at one work of a writer like Ernest Hemingway and claim it to be the best but that is the claim that I would make for For Whom the Bell Tolls.This is a story that captures both the true spirit and the doubtful minds of war . It portrays both courage and cowardice in the beautifully descriptive words that Hemingway was known for . His main character Robert Jordan is an American college instructor who leaves his job to take part in the Spanish Revolution with a strong conviction in his heart and truly believing that he can make a difference . The story encompasses a time frame of slightly less than three days during which he plots to blow a strategic bridge at precisely the right time . In those three days he falls in love with a young Spanish girl in the encampment where he is awaiting that moment and is involved in a character conflict with one of the guerrilla fighters by the name of Pablo.This is a well paced story and never boring with action suspense and romance all coming together in a setting where you can feel the cold and smell the forest in the way that only Hemingway can describe it . A splendid and beautifully told story that I would recommend to anyone of any age or gender . For that reason I would place For Whom the Bell Tolls at the top of the heap among all of his works.In my opinion this great story is the pinnacle of Hemingway 's talent . A must read for anyone interested in great literature . ",4
"Evocative tragic brutal bitter . Using the Spanish Civil War of the 1930s as his backdrop Hemmingway critiques warfare from the political abstractions and distant generals to the individual lives it destroys and renders all in frighteningly powerful detail with every crosscurrent coming to bear on each character in ways that are viscerally wrenching complex and yet clear . Every shade of character and dynamic is captured as several dozen people act out a small part in a large conflict in the twoandahalf days of a mission to blow a bridge.Robert Jordan an American in the volunteer brigades arrives deep in the mountain wilderness of Spain with orders to recruit and employ the services of irregular militia hiding out there in the vicinity of a small bridge that will be key to an impending offensive . His task requires that he win the hearts and minds of these locals in order to secure their loyalty so that he might have an effective small force for carrying out his mission . But this group of people are of conflicting feelings and understandings about their place in the conflict and what it means to each of them . Some are wary and some callous some dedicated to the fight and others only dedicated to themselves.We have real peopleAnselmo 's natural and true goodness Pilar and El Sordo 's dedication Pablo 's treachery Maria 's repeated loss of innocence . We have the politics and forces behind it allselfish and hollow or abstracted until it 's no longer human . And we have warfaresudden death alone in the mountains alone with your last thoughts with the smell of burning flesh with your last blood running silently into the dirt.Hemmingway spares us the simplistic narrative style of describing each character 's feelings . Instead he offers the scenes themselves with such insightful observation and flawlessly rendered detail that every one of the many conflicting shifts of allegiance happening in Pablo 's scheming mind is writ in his every gesture and expression and telling silence . Neither the characters nor the narrator ever need discuss these in so many words . The tensions among the characters as they huddle in their cave hideout are a fascinating web of unexpected assessments of each other shifts of power and influence tactical and strategic wins and loses . Though never spoken of the delicacy and danger of Jordan 's human task is clear . As a contrast there is Maria at first seeming too childish until we realize Jordan 's love for her is love for lost innocence and that she in turnonly seventeenhas every right to her emotional fragility and her desperation.And then there is the war itself and here again Hemmingway 's powers of observation and prose composition startle . Every action bears on every other and the individuals are placed firmly in context from the cave to the local mountains to the whole of Spain to the abstractions of global political movements . Without a syllable of pedantry the author draws the relationship between each detail of individual action and the whole of the conflict . And vice versa with ideals or their absence making each person 's motives a little different and often making helpless puppets of them all.There is very little in literature to compare with For Whom the Bell Tolls . It sees humanity at its very best and very worst simultaneously and sees it directly in vivid glimmering images and beautifully textured emotional nuance without wordy narrative telling the reader what to think and when . The fact that Hemmingway yet controls our understanding with absolute ease and clarity is only half of the writer 's art . His critique of warfare and its human toll expressed in Jordan 's arc of hope and tragedy and resignation is as brutal as the fear and blood on the ground and ultimately contemplates the interconnectedness of life and the sacrifices made to sustain it . No man is an islande intire unto itselfe Ask not for whom the bell tolls it tolls for thee . Among the finest literature we have . ",4
"Few who saw the film version of Hemingway 's classic For Whom The Bell Tolls with Gary Cooper and Ingrid Bergman forget it . It remains today some 60 years later one of the most watched movies.For many their first exposure to truly fine literature may well have been a Hemingway novel . Whenever our introduction to this author took place is probably etched in our memories . His stories are related with such impact that they remain with us.And now with this audio version there is another unforgettable experience available as actor Campbell Scott 's narration takes us back to 1937 and the Spanish Civil War . Raised in Boston Scott still has a touch of that city in his voice which only adds to its richness . He reads with a steadfastness that pleases the ear and an intimacy that holds listeners.We hear He lay flat on the brown pineneedled floor of the forest his chin on his folded arms and high overhead the wind blew in the tops of the pine trees . The mountainside sloped gently where he lay but below it was steep and he could see the dark of the oiled road winding through the pass . There was a stream alongside the road and far down the pass he saw a mill beside the stream and the falling water of the dam white in the summer sunlight.For many those are familiar words yet they continue to command attention as the story of Robert Jordan a demolitions expert who has come to blow up a bridge begins . He hopes to enlist the aid of Pablo in his mission . However Pablo is more than reluctant having seen enough of war he just wants to be left alone . Further he wonders what right a foreigner has to tell him what to do.Of course there is the beautiful Maria with whom Jordan falls in love and Pablo 's wife Pilar who is still willing to fight for the cause.Many consider this to be one of the greatest books to be found in American literature . Listen and see if you do n't agree . Gail Cooke ",4
"If for no other reason this looks impressive as s on a bookshelf to any chick who values good literature . However if you 're not an empty husk of a human being this is a phenomenal story about love and war that illuminates human emotion and connection so thoroughly you 'll hate that your own life does n't carry as much meaning . I only gave it five stars because there were no more to give . ",4
"I have tried reading Ernest Hemingway for the third different book and I have difficulty reading him . The prose is difficult to follow for he generally does not say who is talking and it makes hard reading for me . This is the last book of his I will read . ",2
"The Spanish Civil War was surely the most brutal and tragic civil war of the twentieth century . It not only pitted Spaniard against Spaniard but became a kind of bloody curtainraiser for World War II with Nazi Germany and Mussolini 's Italy lining up on the side of Franco 's insurgents and the USSR backing the embattled leftleaning Republic . The Western democracies who might have prevented Spain from going fascist followed a pusillanimous hands off policy which only emboldened the insurgents and their supporters . Into this vortex came many writers and intellectuals . They were to witness brutality betrayals great valour the corruption of ideals and the consequences of ruthless Realpolitik.So with all that in mind here 's an interesting question . If you were an author trying to write the great Spanish Civil War novel would you choose to 1 sequester your handful of characters up in the mountains away from the main action 2 write 500 pages covering a mere three days during which time nobody has anything to do and 3 make the central character nonSpanish ? 500 pages about three days of waiting is the book 's central problem . It turns the novel into the opposite of an epic . To have taken a canvas as sweeping as the three years of the Spanish Civil War and shrink it down to such a compasspoint was an unfathomable decision on the author 's part . From this selfinflicted literary ambush there is no escape for Hemingway you either need excellent descriptive prose or superb psychological insight to carve a good story from such crooked timber for after all what else is left to describe in such a situation save inner musings and the outer landscape ? The prose is the next problem . Much has been made of Hemingway 's 'deceptively simple ' writing style . However I found it impossible to read For Whom the Bells Tolls without forming the impression that that his reputation for putatively wellmasked complexity is itself the deception . Consider the following extracts from the Vintage editionA hole in a hillside is described asboth deep and profoundp . 444Characters exchange such dialogue as'Well then . Oh then . Oh then . Oh. ' p . 166'Maria. '' Yes. '' Maria. '' Yes. '' Maria . ''Oh yes . Please. ' p . 272'But use thy head . Thou hast much head . Use it. ' p . 444Which brings us to the Hemingway penchant for meaningless repetitionIn an impossible situation you hang on until night to get away . You try to last out until night to get back in . You are all right maybe if you can stick it out until dark and then get back in.p . 174So a woman like that Pilar practically pushed this girl into your sleeping bag and what happens ? Yes what happens ? What happens ? You tell me what happens please . That is just what happens . That is exactly what happens.p . 175Followed by some impressive runon rants as the author becomes completely carried away describing love scenes How many women even in the thirties were seduced by being repeatedly called 'rabbit ' ? My favourite passage is when one of the characters reveals to Joaqu & iacuten that la Pasionara has a son in Russia . Instead of naming the character Hemingway chooses to write the following clanking line'If we insult them a little ? ' the man who had spoken to Joaqu & iacuten about la Pasionara 's son in Russia asked.p . 324On and on it goes like this . For three days . In a cave . This book has now gone into the umpteenth printing and neither the spelling nor grammar have been corrected the flakes was dropping diagonally p. 185 and then brining it down p. 213 the felling when the Ingl & eacutes gave the order p. 380 at one point Andr & eacute Marty is referred to as Mary p. 437.So it needs to be said openly . Hemingway pundits who make excuses for this sort of thing have a lot of explaining to do otherwise they are obliged to defend similarly poor writing when they find it outside the world of Nobel laureates . ",1
"Robert Jordan an American in at least the third generation and a teacher of Spanish from Montana goes to fight in the Spanish Civil War . His motives are never discussed as are not the theater of or the reasons for the war . The novel is rather about several people who in the course of a few days are helping Robert Jordan complete his mission to blow up a bridge.The novel 's tall order being involved in Mankinde to the extent of fighting thy neighbor 's civil wars is echoed in the story 's close engagement with each character . Here is the naturalborn killer Pablo his nononsense and wise Gypsy wife Pilar the beautiful young girl Maria who is carrying much pain the good old rock of a man Anselmo who fights to win this war but who in his bones knows that thou shalt not kill.Robert Jordan is singled out to have both the first and last name . All the other foreigners go by their last names and the Spaniards by their first ones . Besides embodying the foreign engagement in the Spanish affair Robert Jordan also brings a distinctly human element into the war zone the lonely human name among the nomes de guerre of general Golzs and partisan Anselmos.The book is written as if translated from Spanish . The language is a bit choppy many expressions read like Spanish idioms translated verbatim some phrases are left in Spanish . This adds to the feeling that one is in a foreign setting . As it often happens in Hemingway 's novels much working of the human spirit is revealed through this simple language . ",4
"According to the book 's jacket 'For Whom the Bell Tolls ' is Hemingway 's finest novel . I disagree . While the book does a fine job of describing the life of a partisan its 490 pages only cover a few days ' time . So do n't expect a lot of fastmoving action . This novel is basically a character study of the different persons in American volunteer Robert Jordan 's hosting partisan band . Therefore if you enjoy character studies then you will indeed enjoy this book.The plot is that Jordan is sent to blow up a bridge in the Spanish hinterland . He is to contact a local partisan band and secure their assistance in helping him destroy the bridge . Once he arrives at the band 's secret refuge internal power struggles immediately begin as Jordan 's mission will endanger the survival of all the band 's members . In addition there is the inevitable romantic subplot between Jordan and the mysterious Maria.Utilizing the flashback as a vehicle Hemingway defines each actor 's traumatic personal history hisher decisions and his character . Jordan the idealistic young American university professor becomes the daring charismatic and ideologically indifferent demolitions expert . Pablo the angry peasant becomes the murderous avaricious guerilla leader . Pilar the ugly yet happy wife of a diminutive bullfighter is widowed and becomes the overbearing honorable wife of Pablo . Maria the fragile innocent virgin becomes the emotionallyscarred vulnerable lover of Jordan . Anselmo the venerable old peasant becomes the determined brave guerilla fighter . And so it goes with many of the other book 's characters.The book is a good character study and portrait of life as a Spanish partisan but I found it to be much too slow moving for my taste . This is decent novel but it 's not really a war novel . In my opinion Farewell to Arms is a much better war novel and is Hemingways 's best book . ",2
"The greatest book by one of the world 's greatest authors . Anyone who considers themselves remotely interested in reading or literature should read this novel immediately . Hemingway reached the peak of his craft here from the storyline to the characters to the prose itself . It 's part war novel part love story and part historical documentary of the Spanish Civil War . All three blend together seamlessly to create a book without any recognizable flaws . ",4
"With vivid descriptive prose Hemingway takes us into the mind of a soldier . Focused on duty and his mission our main character encounters love among the carnage but even that does not sway him from his duty . Though at times a bit longwinded Hemingway brings the internal battle of war to the surface . The selftalk that goes on shows the conflict behind the rough exterior . We also see the useless deaths that take place because of the uncertainties that come with war . ",2
"For whom The Bell TollsFor whom The Bell Tolls is probably my favorite novel by Hemingway . It is a story told during the Spanish Civil War of an American Robert Jordan who fights as a guerilla who knows how to blow up things especially trains . It helps if you speak a little SpanishHemingway uses it scattered through out the story.Gunner September 2007 ",4
"It cracks me up how Hemingway refuses to write swear words and the word obscenity becomes a verb ie . We are obscenitied ! The obvious Spanish syntax is interesting as well and I imagine that those not fluent in Spanish would find the English both twisted and awkward at times.example Hemingway writes For a favor do this ! which seems a direct translation of Por favor.Another example is How many years to you have ? Cu & aacutentos a & ntildeos tienes instead of the proper English How old are you ? . It 's as if Hemingway wrote the dialogue in Spanish and then translated it word for word into English . I 'm not sure if this is genious or annoying.Regardless of this goofy English the novel is a good read and I recommend reading it . ",3
"I enjoyed the book did not care for the ending but am satisfied as I 'm making an attempt to read some of the classics . I have read books about Hemingway but am now trying to read some of his material . ",3
"Hemingway has a way of narrating that you really feel he 's written a true story . While I like his narrative it becomes a little boring sometimes . A book for school or to take when vacationing . ",3
"I have 2 degrees in English Lit and this is my alltime favorite book . Hemmingway is my favorite author and I believe this is his best novel . ",4
"I only started reading Hemingway last year yet he 's become one of my very favourite authors . Of course I am humble enough to I ask myself What more is there to say about For Whom the Bell Tolls that the reviewers and others have n't said already ? Yet here I am writing another review about Hemingway 's masterpieceFor Whom the Bell Tolls is the tale of two of man 's most cherished and hated traditions Love and War . We enter the story somewhere in Spain in 1937 under the Spanish Civil War . We follow Robert Jordan the American teacher now a demolition expert and a group of guerrilla loyalists Pablo leader of the group his woman Pilar and the girl Maria a prisoner rescued by Pablo.We follow the group and especially Robert 's effort fighting for the Republic against the Fascists . The entire novel only covers a span of three days so we truly get a sense of the time passing . While the story develops we recognise that the real leader of the group is not Pablo but his woman Pilar . We watch Robert develop an intense love for the girl Maria and reading the part where Robert and Maria are taking farewell brought tears to my eyesIt is not possible to not genuinely care for each individual in the story because the characters are few and they are all very well developed . In fact they must be the most complete characters that I 've found in any novel that I 've read . They say that good novelists write books with strong main characters . Great ones make even the minor characters memorable . And so it is with For Whom the Bell Tolls the old man Anselmo is as well developed as Robert Jordan or Pilar.From beginning to end For Whom the Bell Tolls held my attention . This novel shows Hemingway 's masterful command of the English language and I think this novel is one of the best antiwar novels of the 20th century . For Whom the Bell Tolls most definitely deserves its true classiclabel.I could n't recommend it more highly ! ",4
"This is one of Hemingway 's most powerful novels . It has everything Gripping characters both realistic and unrealistic mystery suspense unexpected facts fear drama history . There are not enough superlatives to describe this classic novel . Don & # 8217t miss reading this one . ",4
"Hemingway displays his narrative powers and his command of English prose in this novel that has a standard plot i.e . a man on a mission with the paradox that ambiguities always come with standing up for an idealistic cause . Robert Jordan has committed himself to his wartime assignment to go behind 'enemy ' lines so as to blow up a bridge to help the Republican cause prior to a critical battle . Unlike the obsessive focus of a novel like 'Bridge on the River Kwai ' Hemingway shows the fallibility of idealism how revolutionaries that are not immune to disillusionment and the selfserving actions of those who have fought for a selfless cause but get more and more selfinvolved as their nerves and wits are constantly challenged . The band of partisans for example Augustine Pilar a gypsy a disillusioned commander who live behind enemy lines are seen to have their idealism slowly unravel while holding on the the core belief they have in the Republic . Robert Jordan splits his attention between dealing with the conflicts among the partisans and focusing on his profession as an explosives expert . This dichotomy allows Hemingway to present the proposition that the idealistic face we show to the world can not but be tempered by doubt . This novel succeeds in showing 'ordinary ' people dealing with extraordinary events . ",4
"It is a very good story with a few life leasons you can learn . I really enjoy Hemingway books . Classic 's ",3
"For Whom The Bell Tolls has long been my favorite Ernest Hemingway novel . A compelling action adventure this is a tale filled with mystery and suspense peopled by a cast of extraordinarily vivid characters . It is also the author 's finest and most emotional love story . Although his use of language seems simple it is deceptively so . Hemingway deals effectively with broad themes here love loyalty trust courage and honor are some . And of course For Whom The Bell Tolls set against the brutal violence of the Spanish Civil War is probably the definitive work of fiction about this pivotal period in European and world history.Generalissimo Francisco Franco 's fascist troops invaded Spain in July 1936 in order to overthrow the newly established Republic headed by the Popular Front composed of liberal democrats socialists anarchists trade unionists communists and secularists . If I have left anyone out I am sorry this was a truly complex and unique political situation.The country was basically divided into Red Spain the Republicans and Black Spain represented by the landed elite committed to a feudal system and Franco 's cause Fascists the urban bourgeoisie the Roman Catholic Church and other conservative sectors . The number of casualties is only an estimate but suggests that between 500000 and 1000000 people were killed . Many of these deaths however were not the results of military battles but the outcome of brutal mass executions perpetrated by both sides.During the war in Spain 2800 American volunteers took up arms to defend the Republican cause against Franco who was aided by Hitler and Mussolini . Those who fought with the Abraham Lincoln Brigade from 1937 through 1938 believed the defense of the Republic represented the last hope of stopping the spread of international fascism . These Americans fought alongside approximately 35000 antifascists from fiftytwo countries . Most of the volunteers were not political but idealists who were determined to make Madrid the tomb of fascism . Hemingway 's protagonist Robert Jordan an American professor of Spanish from Missoula Montana was one such volunteer.Robert Jordan an explosives expert has been ordered to make contact with a small band of partisan fighters in the Guadarrama Mountains of fascist controlled southern Spain . His mission of critical importance is to blow up a bridge at a specific time to facilitate a simultaneous Republican attack on the city of Segovia . Most of the novel deals with Jordan 's relationships with members of the guerilla fighters including the girl Maria with whom he falls in love . Jordan is described as a young American of slight political development but a great way with the Spaniards and a fine 'partizan ' record . Neither a Communist nor a Marxist he is antifascist . As is the case with most foreign fighters he is under Communist disciplinedirection because in the conduct of the war they eventually run the show and provide the most effective opposition.Pablo is ostensibly the band 's military leader . He has become disillusioned with the fight cynical and bitter . He is no longer willing to die for any cause . A smart man but brutal and cunning in a mean way he is a complex character . He does have a conscience . Pablo spends much of his time in an alcoholic stupor . When Robert Jordon enters the picture Pablo 's level of animosity reaches new heights and his comrades along with Robert are afraid he will sabotage the mission . He undergoes several changes during the 3 days and 3 nights in which the story takes place.Pilar is Pablo 's woman an extremely strong and savvy person she is steeped in gypsy lore and superstition and is probably the novel 's most colorful character . She is a fine warrior who can be counted upon to cover one 's back in battle . Pilar possesses a big heart . She has cared for Maria and brought the girl back to health . When Robert Jordon joins them Pilar takes the leadership position over from Pablo whom she no longer trusts but still loves . She commands the allegiance of the guerrilla fighters and organizes them into a temporary alliance with El Sordo another exceptional character . She is the force behind many of the novel 's events stimulating movement motivating or manipulating people to take action but for good purpose . Pilar relates various war stories and anecdotes which reflect the cruelty and inhumanity of civil war.Mar & iacutea 's life was shattered by the outbreak of the war . Her father the mayor along with her mother and many of the local citizenry were shot before her eyes by the invading Fascists . Since her mother was not a Republican but a devout Catholic she shouted Viva my husband the town 's mayor before she died rather than the more typical Viva La Republica ! Maria was then taken away and brutalized physically and emotionally by Franco 's soldiers . When the guerilla band blew up the train on which Maria was a prisoner they carried the dazed and broken girl to their mountain hideaway.A thrilling subplot is developed when Andr & eacutes a guerilla must take an urgent message across the lines to a Republican general . Roberto 's entire mission and much more importantly the offensive depends upon the successful and timely delivery of the dispatch . Another important character is old Anselmo for whom Robert develops a strong attachment.A major portion of the novel is told through the thoughts of Robert Jordan with flashbacks to meetings with Russians in Madrid and some reflections on his father and grandfather . Jordon 's inner monologues fascinate and clearly demonstrate Hemingway 's skill with language and character development . Jordan at one point comments to himself that he is his own best companion . Because of his wartime responsibilities he can not allow himself to be overcome by emotion which he considers a luxury . Whenever he feels anger deep love disappointment foreboding fear anything that will distract him from his purpose he talks himself down and refocuses . In such a relatively brief period he begins to love life as never before because of his feelings for Maria . Even here however he accepts that if anything happens to him he is fortunate to have experienced a lifetime in three and a half days.Again I can not write enough in praise of Hemingway 's use of language . It is sparse direct and extremely beautiful in its descriptiveness . He translated the Spanish intimate tu form into English . I speak Spanish and although this may seem a bit awkward initially it gives a much more accurate feel for the local idiom and the dialogue between Maria and Roberto as he is called and between Roberto and the partisans.This is not only an extraordinary novel but is one of the most important in American fiction . Hemingway worked as a correspondent in Spain during the Civil War as a reporter for the North American Newspaper Alliance NANA . He raised money for the Republicans in their struggle against the Nationalists under General Francisco Franco.JANA ",4
"I began reading For Whom The Bell Tolls directly after finishing a particularly bad modern novel . At first For Whom was a breath of fresh air no long runon sentences no excessive adverbs in the dialog tags not a whole lot of meaningless adjectives etc . The dialog was crisp and terse and enjoyable and the setting was captivating.But then nothing happens . For a really long time . And all of the flashbacks via thought and story start to get confusing . At times I was n't sure if the story was in the present or past in the thoughts of the protagonist or the speech of another character . And speaking of characters four of them are strong and compelling Robert Jordan the protagonist Maria his love interest Pilar a tough old woman and Pablo a oncegreat but now tarnished soldier . A fifth character of note is the Gypsy but the other characters in this ensemble cast are largely indistinguishable from one another.One more criticism I was really hoping to get a better understanding of the Spanish Civil War and its politics . Maybe I did . But Robert Jordan and his cadre are not hardline Communists nor anarchists they have special contempt for the latter but republicans in their fight against the Fascists . Not a lot of background is given as to the roots of this conflict or the underlying motivations of each camp.Overall I feel I have been enriched by reading this book and I like Hemingway 's writing style this is my first Hemingway since readingThe Old Man and the Seain 9th grade but all in all I understand why this has been called one of the 10 Books Not to Read in your Lifetime . Also Did I have an edited version ? What was with all of this I 'obscenity ' in your milk etc . ? ",2
"This is the first EH books I have read . I love reading history and war related books because I want to get a sense of what it would be like to live in a desperate time under extreme conditions . I found this book to be exciting with excellent characters and an excellent story . I will probably read more of his works . I recommend . ",4
"Note that this review is for the audio book version of this novel . The narrator was Campell Scott . The audio quality was excellent and the narrator did a good job he spoke with a slight Spanish accent which seemed to fit well with the narrative . He did some characterizations with his voice but not much compared to other narrators I 've listened to.This is the second time that I have read this novel the first time was over 30 years ago in high school . It 's amazing to me how differently I looked at this book this time around . The first time I read it I saw it as an adventure story with some interesting character development . The second time around I read it as a fascinating look at how war brings out the best and worst in people.I feel that Hemingway accurately captured how certain people would act in a civil war the cruelty by some and acts of courage by others . In all cases the characters were in a situation where there were no great options . He also accurately showed that there are good people on both sides of a conflict that soldiers do suffer by taking the lives of others.As a Spanish speaker I enjoyed Hemingway 's use of language . Most of the unique use of English is actually a direct literal translation of Spanish . I had n't heard the phrases directly translated that way before but immediately recognized them as common Spanish slang.This is a book worth reading you will learn that life is not always black and white . ",3
"There is nothing wrong with Hemingway 's skill and technique . What I fell in love with in his writing is all here except his conciseness . This story could have been 200 pages shorter and all the better for it . But Hemingway was responding to critics that accused him of the very conciseness that made his other works a rhythmic masterpiece of storytelling narrative . Hemingway understood technique better than any writer and why he let criticism overrule better judgment destroys the pace and rhythmic flow of this story . For a three day period 470 pages is a lot of cave dwelling talking eating and drinking . The stories of Pilar while important also drag the story in pacing . Robert Jordan 's train of thought well let 's just say that is a mighty long train . The relationship between Jordan and Maria is a quick and welcome breath of distraction from the mundane cave proceedings.This is still worthy of a read but you are going to have to spend some time with it and dare say slug through some excessive chapters where the rhythm and flow of the story comes to a crawl . ",2
"A number of previous reviewers have noted that this book is about the difference one man makes in the world . Unfortunately I think a number of reviewers have missed what Hemingways is saying about the issue . He is not saying that one man makes all the difference in the world or that one man is meaningless compared to the whole . What he is saying is that the world continues without him regardless of whether he changes the world or not . The title of this book and its theme comes from John Donne 's 17th Meditation which says thatNo man is an island entire of itself every man is a piece of the continent a part of the main . If a clod be washed away by the sea Europe is the less as well as if a promontory were as well as if a manor of thy friend 's or of thine own were . Any man 's death diminishes me because I am involved in mankind and therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls it tolls for theeHemmingway masterfully tells the story of a man Robert Jordan who becomes involved with some Spanish gypsies on his mission to blow up a bridge to help his side win a war . He begins thinking that it does not matter whether he lives or not as long as he accomplishes his goal . However he falls in love with Maria and suddenly wants to live . He takes great pains to make sure that he will be able to do his job and blow up the bridge . He finally does it . Then he dies in the escape . And the world continues on without him . Hemingway is trying to say what Donne was saying life is not tied in the individual though the individual may be important . The individual is a part of the collective whole . The issue is not whether the individual is valuable or not but rather the issue is the individual 's relation to the complex web of human existence . Perhaps the best illustration of this idea is in Hemingway 's beginning and conclusion of the book . It begins with Robert Jordan lying in some pine needles planning his life . It ends with him lying in pine needles dead . The whole middle of the book simply details his part in the complex web of human existence.Hemingway also explores the concept of war through Robert Jordan who is fighting a war he does not need to be in . Robert begins to question why he is fighting and why the war is happening . Some have complained that Hemingway glorifies war . I do not disagree . I disagree when they say that it is wrong to glorify war . It is not at all wrong to glorify the Allies side of World War II is it ? It is wrong to glorify war for war 's sake but I 'm not sure that Hemingway does that . He glorifies the willingness to lay one 's life down for what one loves not simply dying and killing meaninglessly which makes his own suicide later in life rather ironic.Whether you agree with Hemingway 's thesis or not it is very well written and very interesting to read . The characters are very real and it is neat to see what Spanish gypsies were like in the early part of the 20th century.Overall grade A ",4
"Hemingway is a master storyteller and FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS is a fine example of that mastery . The strengths lie in character development and thematic presentation . The weaknesses lie in it 's style and language . For example the use of what passes for colloquial Spanish particularly in it 's profane form seems artificial and clumsy . I also think elements of the plot tend to weaken or dilute the overall effect of the climax like when Pilar reads Jordan 's palm to tell his future thus foreshadowing events to come.That being said this is a very inspirational book and Hemingway has a knack for grabbing the reader 's attention and keeping it . He is especially good in his short fiction and an excellent example of that can be found within this novel when Pilar tells the tale of her village . It is perhapsthe single most riveting and effective part of the novel.FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS is of course one of the great novels to deal with sacrifice for righteous causes and devotion to higher ideals . It reminds me in a way of A TALE OF TWO CITIES in that respect . It is a great noble work and an indictment of war . There is also a great personal love story here . Hemingway writes maybe intentionally very cinematic novels . ",3
"I read this book when I was in middle school and really enjoyed it . I think it is a great pick for anyone but especially young boys and Hemingway fans . I plan to reread it soon . ",4
"The author 's style is strong and detailed but with so little happening over so many pages I found myself becoming impatient with the story . Perhaps just a sign of the times and my own personal taste I put the book down after reading only half of it . In reflection the characters the settings and the building of the story line are all quite beautiful as a whole but the pace was just too stretched out for me to endure . Perhaps I 'll pick it up again sometime . ",2
"For Whom the Bell Tolls is quite simply one of the best novels ever written . Honestly I had relatively low expectations before reading it . I read A Farewell to Arms and found the terse repetitive prose and stilted dialogue underwhelming . For Whom the Bell Tolls is superior to A Farewell to Arms in every way . This is a complex novel with some of the most memorable characters in modern literature.This mesmerizing novel neither glorifies war not does it vilify it . Hemmingway 's detached prose is world weary exposing both sides of the conflict allowing us to see that war inevitable and futile is never simple . Characters on both sides of the conflict struggle with their own fears and regrets . Both sides commit and are subjected to the atrocities and horrors of war . As different as each side may think they are from the other in the end they are all human and are not as different as they think.For Whom the Bell Tolls is riveting and powerful easily one of the ten best novels of the 20th century . I ca n't recommend this book highly enough . ",4
"War is not a life it is a situation one which may neither be ignored nor accepted.T.S . EliotFirst off let me preface this review by stating that I have never been a big fan of war novels . Secondly I would definitely not classify myself as an ardent aficionado of Hemingway 's work . I highly respect admire and appreciate his contributions to American Literature yet he would n't quite make it into my top 10 list of favorite American authors . So that being said I had my reservations and trepidations about what I was getting myself into right from the getgo . So many books so little timePublished in 1940 this is a story about a young American man Robert Jordan who is in the International Brigades and attached to an antifascist unit during the Spanish Civil War 19361939 . Jordan is an expert w explosives and his mission is to blow up a bridge during an attack of the city of Segovia . Most of the novel is told to us from Jordan 's perspective which is obviously motivated by Hemingway 's own experiences while living in Spain during this violent chaotic era . The story is essentially about the three days leading up to Jordan 's mission and takes place in the mountains just north of the capital of Madrid . It is here that he meets a truly unforgettable colorful cast of characters Maria Anselmo Pablo Pilar Fernando El Sordo Agustin Rafael et al all fighting the good fight with our hero Senor Jordan.Jordan like most of Hemingway 's male protagonists is full of testosterone a bit aloof and apathetic disillusioned and of course heroic . Papa Ernie describes him further early on in the novel He was serving in a war and he gave absolute loyalty and as complete a performance as he could give while he was serving . But nobody owned his mind nor his faculties for seeing and hearing and if he were going to form judgments he would form them afterwards . Like Ernest himself Robert is a rough and tough cynical macho man . However on the flipside of that coin he is also a very sensitive and vulnerable soul a flawed complex character full of contradictions . He is a realist and a dreamer . He is a passionate lover and a fightersoldier a trusted loyal friend and a bitter vengeful enemy etc In other words one big ball of paradox ! Many reviewers have criticized Hemingway 's characters for being too simple and unsophisticated . For example the beautiful Maria Jordan 's love especially takes a beating for being so shallow and twodimensional . However I do n't agree with that assessment at all . We have to remember that she is a simple country girl who has been brutally treated by the enemy I will not disclose how and is caught up in trying to survive the savagery of a war . What do expect her to be like Isabel Archer ? Emma Bovary ? Yes Maria is a bit too simple and submissive for most strong modernday women to relate with . But Hemingway 's creation of Pilar well there is a dame of different colors completely ! She is one of the most fascinating and also one of the funniest creations in all of literature a truly singular and intriguing character indeed ! This was quite a nice surprise for me . I have only read five of Hemingway 's pieces yet this one is not only my favorite but also has enticed me to pick up a few more of his classic works . It is the type of book that you either are going to love or going to hate and you will know which side of the fence you will fall on right from the getgo . Hemingway was a true minimalist and spins this heartpounding intense yarn in a simple straightforward manner . He does n't develop his characters a la Austen Balzac Tolstoy James et al but yet few authors can do so much with so little like old Ernie could . And this classic is a prime example ! Fiercely and austerely told it is one hec of an intense ride ! Highly recommended ",4
"I want to offer a little dissent here . I thought the book to be a bit dull and slow . I really labored to get through it and becuase of it completely turned me off to the rest of his work . It could be that I spend too much time reading action fiction so I need a fast paced book to keep me interested . ",1
"As for most of us I was forced to read this book in school now I can read it because I want to . I 've really enjoyed this book and plan on reading more of Ernest Hemingway 's offerings . ",4
"This review may contain spoilers.The title of my review is the question that encompasses and permeates Hemingway 's deceptively simple and straightforward war saga in For Whom the Bell Tolls hereafter FWTBT . This existential question certainly torments FWTBT 's protagonist Robert Jordan an American expatriate Spanish professor and bridge demolitions expert allied with several Spanish communist guerrilla fighters against the fascists in their late ` 30s civil war . Robert certainly does n't want to deal with this abstract dilemma . An efficient meticulous professional he merely wants to destroy a strategic bridge in order to slow the fascist advance . But this task is not so cutanddry as it seems . Like an unemotional surgeon Robert has to time the explosion precisely in order to delay the fascists enough so that the main communist forces led by General Golz can arrive in time to retaliate . This means there is plenty of idle dead time to not only plan the demolition but also to somewhat unwillingly get drawn into the lives hopes and fates of the guerrilla fighters.And what vibrant compelling unforgettable characters these fighters are ! One of the most admirable fighters is the elderly but capable and loyal guerrilla veteran Anselmo who helps Robert execute the complicated demolition and attack lookout logistics . Despite his war experience Anselmo wrestles with qualms about killing others since it conflicts with fading but still strong religious convictions but he constantly convinces himself that it is for the good of The Republic . In spite of himself Robert mirrors the same misgivings even though he is a selfprofessed atheist . An even more conflicted guerrilla veteran is the swinish but cunning Pablo who was once a dedicated insurrectionist but may have lost his nerve because of new materialistic longings especially for horses . His allegiance to the cause is uncertain especially to Robert . There is the alluring violated seemingly fragile and traumatized but nevertheless determined revolutionary Maria with whom the surprisingly to him smitten Robert shares a passionate relationship . Then there is the plump matronly wise outspoken and totally indomitable amazon Pilar wife of Pablo and fierce protector of Maria the equal of and probably superior to any man . She provides Robert comforting adages observations and moral support . She has her own misgivings about war fighting and killing like the rest of the group but her patriotism and the promise of a fair Republic as well as her sturdy personality keeps her going.As I said despite his best efforts to distance himself from the guerilla fighters ' personal dramas and remain practical and professional Robert finds himself drawn in . Although FWTBT gives the lie to war 's depiction as continuous monumental action in the novel it is often quiet and dull with only occasional sporadic bursts of fire and action it seems to see the Spanish civil war as meaningful and important unlike a lot of wars . FWTBT hints that Robert sees this war the same way and that he wants to contribute to the communists ' worthy cause of freedom and autonomy . Not only that it also seems he wants to perpetuate his grandfather 's heroic Civil War legacy and expunge the cowardly shame of his father 's suicide.Nevertheless even worthy wars can demand actions that can be unconscionable in peacetime . For example Pablo 's potential for betrayal prompts the guerrilla band and Robert to debate whether to kill Pablo . Again killing is supposed to be wrongbut in this case may save the lives of others . But as counterpoint Pilar relates the grisly tale of how Pablo she and several citizens of a Spanish town captured several fascists including priests and made them run a deadly gauntlet . Even though it felt right and pleasurable to beat and humiliate this evil enemy and even though they were losing their religion Pilar still felt remorse for such barbaric actions . Not only were they barbaric they were futile the fascists took the town anyway . No wonder Robert struggles to keep a clinical impersonal perspective on this war he fears that if he cares too much he ca n't do his job effectively.Even in his intimate relations with Maria Robert keeps this armslength attitude . Make no mistake he appreciates her company and feels she has made his life sweeter and more substantial but he also resents the fact that it happened too late and in war time and that war could end it . But of course Maria 's mixture of unjustly tarnished innocence her fierce devotion to him and her staunch revolutionary parentage endears Robert to her and evokes protective feelings equal to Pilar 's . He even goes so far to say that he is married to her and one with her and describes plans on how they will live their lives together in Madrid postwar though FWTBT is a wee bit unclear as to how sincere Robert is about all this.As the war continues and the bridge demolition time nears this existential struggle plays out most tellingly in Robert 's internal monologues . Throughout FWTBT his admiration for the guerrilla fighters rises and falls his opinion of the war oscillates between worthwhile and incompetently chaotic and his will to live and fight waxes and wanes . The chapters on the fascist 's horrific besiegement of stalwart communist guerrilla fighter El Sordo the Robert 's guerrilla fighters ' noble but impractical desire to help El Sordo and guerrilla fighter Andres ' resolute but probably futile efforts to get Robert 's message to General Golz to delay his attack because the advancing fascists were not vulnerable enough all this reflects Robert 's vacillating thinking.To the very end of FWTBT Robert struggles . Does it matter whether he blows the bridge up or not ? The fascists will come anyway . Robert and his band must retreat including Maria whom he may not ever see again . Finally a leg injury forces Robert to make a choice between two terrible actions that might be considered dishonorable at most times . However in war time either action might be seen as a noble selfsacrifice . Whichever Robert chooses it will finally convince him that in at least this circumstance life is indeed worth living fighting and dying for.Some observations1 . Like Hemingway 's other war novel A Farewell to Arms see my Amazon review if you are interested FWTBT deals with the pain and the elation of war love and inevitable death . I believe FWTBT is the greater novel because unlike A Farewell to Arms it finds hope where there is no hope to be found.2 . The thees thys and thous in the dialogues between Robert and the guerrilla fighters sounded a bit artificial to me . Of course FWTBT is based upon Hemingway 's experience so I must assume the dialogue is authentic . Still it sounded like an Amish community.3 . As in A Farewell to Arms the love interest Maria in FWTBT is decidedly compliant obedient and almost worshipful to her man . Of course the circumstances in both novels explain that most unfeminist attitude . Still it can sound like Hemingway 's private romantic fantasy especially with that unintentionally comic to me phrase Did the earth move ? .4 . If you have n't read FWTBT and plan to keep a Spanish dictionary handy . Hemingway does translate most of the Spanish phrases he uses but not all of them . Furthermore be warned many of the Spanish phrases are obscene if amusingly so . ",4
"The last time I read Hemingway 's novels was some ten years ago in Spain . I thought I was pretty cool . I read The Sun Also Rises and A Farwell to Arms . I do n't recall what I thought of them . But one thing I do know is that it is sometimes difficult to separate the legacy or mystique of certain writers from the work at hand.I thought most of the book was very well done . The reality of war was crafted in a way that compares well to more modern portraits of war The Things They Carried Apocalypse Now Deer Hunter Jarhead . The true violence of humiliation dehumanization and violation are hauntingly evoked . There are scenes in this novel that I will not forget the killing of the fascists in Pablo and Pilar 's village the rape of Maria and the murder of her parents the death of Anselmo at the bridge . The portrayal of men and women those who try to hold on to some sort of moral clarity and those who lose their bearings was brilliant . When it comes to men at war the book shines.A technique that I found interesting was the way that Hemingway created the absent character of Kashkin . He serves as a counter point to Robert Jordan and as an example of all that could and eventually does happen . The absent character adds depth to the novel it gives a skeleton upon which to hang the clothes of the past.However there were places in the book where I felt uncomfortable like watching the awkward intimacies of adolescents . The love scenes in the book were failures . And I keep trying to figure out why.One reason perhaps is that they happened without enough development . Like some romantic comedy the two lovers see one another and almost instantly fall in love . Granted the entire novel takes place in three days but every other part of the narrative is carefully developed . Though the timeframe is compact there is plenty of space in the narrative . The book is nearly 500 pages long . The sex the declarations of love the intimacy it all seems hollow.In every other place in the novel there is complexity nuance . But when it comes to romance to the issue of love the novel falls into absolutes and clich & eacutes . Robert Jordan is too righteous in his love for Maria . He is too loyal too gentle . They love each other fully and doubtlessly . And in a novel that creates such a real portrait of war and moral ambiguity complexity in loyalty politics allegiance nationality and idealism to offer the reader such an ordinary popsong rendition of love nearly justifies skipping every section where one sees the words little rabbit.Hemingway attempts to integrate language into the story by employing the occasional Spanish word along with an antiquated sort of English full of thou and thee . This is supposed to simulate Catalan . But it does not work . It just makes characters that talk funny.But of course it is after all Hemingway . And everybody should read it . ",3
"For Whom the Bell Tolls is a fantastic book . Hemingway writes heroes with fears doubts and faults so well that I feel a deep connection with them . Not every man is a John Wayne passing through life clear of purpose and without second thoughts . But watch a little tv and you 'd think it were so . Hemingway creates characters I can understand appreciate and connect with . Also Robert Jordan 's love interest reflected my own with my fiancee . The book was fantastic for its story its plot the characters and the way it made me feel reading it and afterwards . ",4
"I learned a very important lesson here take a good peak at the book before you get it . The Scribner publication paperback of this Hemingway Novel was n't the one I believe most people read . This was spattered everywhere with Thee and Thou . That really detracted from the story . Unfortunately I do n't think even with out that distraction the story would n't have been much better . It also would have helped me had I known more about the bigger picture . I 'm not that familiar with Spanish history and was n't sure who represented what . Also a strange personal quirk I keep thinking of the protagonist Robert Jordan and transposing him in my mind with Di Vinci Code protagonist Robert Langdon . I guess it 's the common name Robert . ",2
"The complexity depth and beauty of this book are immeasurable . I have never read a more moving book . ",4
"Trite by the numbers love story with spectacularly banal romantic dialogue . The author does n't bother with much setting or character development . The two lead characters are two dimensional with the girl too good to be true.He drinks on practically every page Wine beer cognac vermouth brandy whiskey and soda morning noon or night.It 's hard to imagine what anyone thinks is so great about this book . ",1
"For Whom the Bell Tolls FWTBT is a masterpiece especially combined with Campbell Scott 's superb reading . It exceeds any fiction I have ever heard or read and I have heard and read a lot.There are few books I have encountered that merited a second read or in this case a second listen the Bible being an obvious one . But after listening to FWTBT I became interested in the little known Spanish Civil War and purchased a book about it read it and then listened to FWTBT again . The pleasure of the experience was heightened by the contextual knowledge I now possessed . I am not suggesting you must know something about that war to enjoy this book . Quite the contrary . The book spurred the interest in the war ! If you like words and dialogue you will find that listening to this book is like enjoying an exquisite wine or fine cigar . I highly recommend it . Do n't let the fact it was written long ago about a long ago war have anything to do with your decision to buy listen to it . It is timeless.An awesome work such as I have never experienced . The Master Hemingway read by a master in his own right Scott . ",4
"Rad book . I 've been living in Spain for the last 9 months and loved reading this book while here . I found the story and characters to be very genuine . ",4
"Author Ernest Hemingway spared little in this searing look at the Spanish Civil War . Readers see that hatred loyalty doubt atrocity ideals and emotional wear were all part of this tragic conflict . The story centers on American volunteer Robert Jordan and his antifascist comrades a band of Spanish Loyalist guerillas operating in the hills behind enemy lines in 1937 . Jordan is planning to blow up a Fascistheld bridge as part of an upcoming LoyalistRepublican offensive . His comrades include Pablo a oncedependable leader now unstable and sick of war Pilar a woman of remarkable fiber and Maria a victim of fascist atrocities with whom Jordan falls in love . These guerillas hide in the hills while Hitler 's bombers fly overhead helping the fascists . Readers learn of atrocities committed by both sides and see that ideals can die along with those that fall in battle.This 1940 novel makes a powerful statement despite losing some effect from Hemingway 's wordiness and toolengthy descriptions . Despite this flaw readers see the cruelties of war and sense the author 's heartsickness at this dreadful conflict . ",3
"Hemingway used his experiences as a journalist during the Spanish Civil War to build the structure for this novel . His descriptions of the settings are superb . The novel is a great introduction to the Spanish Civil War a war with which many Americans are unfamiliar . Hemingway used characters like Pablo to show how people lose their humanity during war . The story is powerful . His main character Robert Jordan begins to question whether anything good will come of all the fighting.Despite its many wonderful attributes this novel has some problems . The dialogue is stilted . The romance as in all Hemingway novels is unbelievable . Finally Hemingway should have stuck to English . His use of Spanish in this book is embarassing.Nonetheless in my opinion For Whom the Bell Tolls should be required reading for all U.S. high school students . It 's truly a classic . ",3
"Amazing writer . A little long in some places but definitely a worth read . I would definitely recommend this book especially if you enjoy historical novels . ",3
"Wonderful way to get what I want without leaving home . Trusted service fast cost effective.My husband wanted this book and is quite enjoying it . ",4
"Please do n't dismiss me as one of those idiots who ca n't spell and says a book is boring because it 's long and they 'd rather be listening to heavy metal music . I read Moby Dick and did not find it boring . I read Bleak House and did not find it boring . I read Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire and did not find it boring . But For Whom the Bell Tolls is well boring . Here 's why I never gave a damn for this Hemingway hero Robert Jordan . He seems like a pretty aimless tough guy making love every fifth chapter and cussing around trying to be cool . The ending was entirely unsatisfactory we end up having gone just about nowhere . Fortunately Pilar is an interesting character who adds some spice to the proceedings . The only real point to this novel seems to be conveyed by its fine title a reference to a John Donne poem . Loosely the poem conveyed the idea that whatever happens to any human being ought perhaps to be the business of all of us . In the case of the novel Hemingway draws attention to the largely overlooked Spanish Civil War and its suffering . But he does so with the title page alone the rest of these 400 pages add little to this noble premise . Hemingway needs a better plot to devote his fine style to . ",2
"Can never get enough of Hemingway 's crisp classic . This is a great example of his up close and personal style . ",4
"I read many many books . I read many good books . But I read few books that are masterpieces and that I know are masterpieces before I 've even finished them . This is one of them.Hemingway is a writer of many virtues and his share of faults . All his virtues and few of his faults are on display here . He brings to life a little skirmish in a little war that would perhaps be largely forgotten by most of the world were it not for this very book . His characterizations with the exception of Maria who however well she serves her purpose is still frankly insipid are brilliant . Jordan is easily one of his most likable and relatable heroes Pilar one of his best female characters . The conflict and especially the climax in the last fifty pages is electric.Thoughtprovoking moving entertaining what more can you ask from a book ? ",4
"My first Hemingway was Men Without Women a collection of short stories and I was so bored with it . After that I pretty much put Hemingway on my black list because if I could n't stand his short stories there 's no way I 'll get through a whole novel . Man was I wrong . I read this book based on a recommendation from a friend . All I can say is wow ! This book is truly beautiful the characters the scenes and all the emotions that goes with it.The whole story takes place in 4 days . It 's about a man who 's on a mission to blow up a bridge and to do so he needs to work with the local guerrillas . Each character is unique and the all the things one man can learn about life in just 4 days.Definitely one of my favorite books of all time . I look forward to checking out his other novels as well . ",4
"Hemingway 's style was so fashionable amongst writers of the post WWII era that Italian authors actually attempted to invent their own slang just to sound like him . I have n't kept up with modern Italian literature but I am noting that American writing is slowly regressing into that preHemingway overwordiness . The focus now seems to be on sounding poetic rather than writing one true sentence.This is truly sad because Hemingway brought American writing to a new level . You can almost feel his straining to come up with the perfect words for his descriptions.I read For Whom the Bell Tolls for the first time thirty years ago when I was fifteen . It convinced me then that Ernest Hemingway was the greatest American writer of all time . Rereading it now in middle age I still feel the same . ",4
"A major portion of the novel is told through the thoughts of Robert Jordan with flashbacks to meetings with Russians in Madrid and some reflections on his father and grandfather . Jordon 's inner monologues fascinate and clearly demonstrate Hemingway 's skill with language and character development . Jordan at one point comments to himself that he is his own best companion . Because of his wartime responsibilities he can not allow himself to be overcome by emotion which he considers a luxury . Whenever he feels anger deep love disappointment foreboding fear anything that will distract him from his purpose he talks himself down and refocuses . In such a relatively brief period he begins to love life as never before because of his feelings for Maria . Even here however he accepts that if anything happens to him he is fortunate to have experienced a lifetime in three and a half days . ",4
"Ernest Hemingway 's FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS is not only a war novel but also a story of life love lost and ultimately death . Robert Jordan lives to fight with the republican guerillas and he dies fighting alongside them . He lived a life that meant more to him than living in American suburbia with his wife and two children and a dog working a ninetofive job . That would n't be Robert Jordan or Ernest Hemingway.Hemingway 's minimalist writing reflects the pristine snow trails and pine forests which reflect loneliness and death but also love and hope . Like a full moon reflected in a still lake . A poetry of war and camaraderie where the violence of the writing would only temper the tragedy of lost . To experience these feelings is to experience the beauty of Hemingway 's writing . For a war novel there are n't many battle scenes . But we get to feel Robert Jordan 's subdued emotions against the violence of war . The power of his love for Maria is that it could n't be consummated . In the end he chooses the only path consistent with his other choices to fight to the end and risk capture and torture rather than have his comrades shoot him . ",4
"American Robert Jordan is so dedicated to the ideals of liberty and equality for all that he has joined Communists fighting the fascists in the Spanish Civil War . As a dynamiter he has been assigned to blow up a bridge at a certain time three days away . In the mean time he must win over the local guerrillas and procure their help.In & # 8220For Whom the Bell Tolls & # 8221 Hemingway crafted a nearperfect novel . The characters & # 8217 goals are clear . Their motivations and stakes are high . Their problems and setbacks are many . Everybody is flawed and damaged some considerably more than others . And their dangerous task looms relentlessly over every interaction as the plot progresses . From the start the reader knows that 1 either they will or will not success in blowing the bridge and 2 it & # 8217s almost certain some of the characters will die in the process . By the end I had come to love and root hard for Robert Jordan and his strange band as they went to their task.Hemingway is a master at getting inside the heads of his characters . Through their thoughts he examines love and war honor and cowardice respect fear of loneliness God and religions and the atrocities human beings commit against others during war.The characters & # 8217 speech often sounds very literally translated Spanish . Example & # 8220What passes with thee ? & # 8221 For me that and the sprinkling of actual Spanish contribute to the authentic feel of the story . The backandforth arguments Robert Jordan carries on in his mind are fantastically written as are the scenes about truly great love . Seventyfive years after & # 8220For Whom the Bell Tolls & # 8221 was published the story and themes are as profound and beautiful as ever . ",4
"The book chronicles an American dynamiter 's mission to blow up a bridge controlled by Spanish fascists . The book does n't focus on the war as a whole but rather on the toll war takes on the people living in it . The main character Robert Jordan bands with a guerilla group of which the war took its toll . One man once a great fighter has now become a hopeless drunk who 's only form of comfort other than the bottle is taking care of horses left behind . His wife who had been beautiful once now has aged and lost her vivacity . Another young woman lost her parents in a brutal confrontation with fascist forces and dehumanized in the process . Hemingway 's style of writing was a little too wishy washy but some of his emotional descriptions of the things that happened were intriguing . Two of the more emotional scenes were some of the characters flashbacks of what they had gone through during the war mainly having to do with killing an enemy and being captured by an enemy . There have been many stories about war and although war is n't something anyone can be used to this book took a perspective that has been thoroughly explored by today 's standards . At the time the book was written there was a lot of censoring where the word obscenity was substituted hence the book was intended for a wide audience . During Hemingway 's time it is understandable how this book can be grappling to an American audience . But since then World War II and the Vietnam War have pushed aside this conflict in the minds of Americans with their tales of calamity and loss and pretty much reiterating the themes of Hemingway 's book . This is the reason why a typical American reader may not find pathos for the book . Maybe if the book talk more about Franco ideologies and the bigger picture of the context of the war then it may be more interesting to contemporary readers . But this book still has a story that will be valuable for future generation . In other words this is a good book for students . ",3
"This 1939 novel is set during the Spanish Civil War a war that most American know little about . The hero of this book is Robert Jordon an American volunteer hoping that this rebellion would make a better world . He wants to do good and be a hero but whether or not this happens is basically left for the reader to decide.The book is about his mission to blow up a bridge and the people he meets along the way Spaniards hoping for a better life and getting caught up in warfare . Naturally there is a love interest between Robert and Maria a young woman who had been very mistreated by bad guys and is now seeking refuge with the cavedwelling freedom fighters of the revolution.The writing is sparse and meaningful . The setting is depressing . People struggle . People die . The future looks bleak.This is fine story well told . However I was annoyed by some of the narrative . Hemingway does n't uses curses and so the word obscenity is used where a curse would logically go . I do n't know if this was in only the edition I was reading but I found it very annoying and it broke my concentration.This is the only Hemingway book I have ever read and I did like the writing . I found the plot easy to follow and I identified with and pitied all the characters . It is a classic of a time and a place and a writer who will long be remembered . ",3
"In the past few days I have finished reading the internationally acclaimed book For Whom The Bell Tolls by Ernest Hemingway . Before I began reading this book I had heard and read from many that the book was a classic and a very good read after finishing the book I have to say that I completely agree . This book well deserves the praise that it has been given over the years it is a classic in every sense of the word.From Hemingway 's unmatched descriptions of the beautiful Spanish countryside to the deep inner thoughts and struggles of the people . Hemingway has captured the true inner feelings of the Spanish people in their struggle for their idea of freedom from the gripping oppression of fascism.Yet he goes even further in the unlikely relationship that develops between Robert Jordan and recently rescued Maria . He is still able to show that there is always some good even in some of the darkest situations . From betrayals and tragedy to unlikely and unexpected aid Hemingway covers all spectrums and interestsThe only criticism I can give this book is concerning the ending which I personally found unsatisfying but that is for you to decide for yourself . In conclusion I find this book to be a great read for any who feel they are a skilled enough reader to fully appreciate the majesty of this work of art . ",3
"This by far is my favorite book by Hemingway very informative about Guerrilla warfare and great character building . This is a definite read you will keep turning the pages on this one ! ",4
"For Whom the Bell Tolls is a Hemingway less affected by his modernist tendencies than To Have and Have Not yet not as uninfluenced as The Old Man and the Sea . Also there is a good deal of sexual discussion and activity though all of it is done in an explicityetentirelyimplied manner exclusive to Hemingway 's style . This story of the American professor who joins the Spanish Communists in their fight against the fascists explores love morality Communism duty awareness of death and bravery in the face of death . Specifically impending doom expedites and deepens the life and love of the characters . A good first read but not necessarily worth a return . ",3
"When I first started reading this book I could not for the life of me remember what the dang thing was called ! I kept confusing it with Hemingway 's A Farewell to Arms.I read this book because The Hubble and I came up with an agreement that we would select a book for one another every other month . We started in May . The book he selected for me was this one.I approached this book assuming I would hate it . I assumed it was just some war story The Hubble loves those and it would be a man book . My assumptions were partially correct . This was a story about warbut it was also so much more than that.This was the story of Robert Jordan the dynamiter . Robert Jordan is an American teacher who was called to Active Duty in the military . He was sent to the mountains of Spain to assist the antifascist guerilla units there . His main purpose is to demolish a bridge and assist in the attack against the fascist elements in that area.During his time with the guerilla group Jordan begins to know and understand the many individuals who are engaged in the antifascist cause . Jordan quickly comes to care for individuals such as Anselmo the old man who is a hunter and hates to kill men . Pilar . the mujer de Pablo who is considered barbarous . El Sordowhat is there to say about El Sordo ? A brave man . A Strong man . A man who fought with everything he had . And MariaMaria the cropped headed one.I was extremely surprised to discover the love story within this book . Jordan 's love affair with Maria is an integral part of this story and far from the man book I originally believed it to be . The love that Maria and her Ingles or Roberto share moved the Earth . It is a love that will linger in my heart.This book is both heartbreaking and beautiful . Though it is not a man book neither is it a romance . This is a book that will dig within the depths of any reader 's soul rip your heart out and replace it with the warm of each character held within these pages.Hemingway has an amazing way with words . He is such an eloquent writer that he draws you in and makes you feel as though you were there in the hills with these people . One passage in particular stands out to me . The scene culminates in a bombing and the description of the ground rolling underneath the character is so intense and so vivid that you believe the ground has rolled under you as well.Hemingway 's voice is astounding . His writing style iswhat can you say ? How can you adequately put into words how much a book has touched you ? Affected you ? Engaged you ? Does the thesaurus contain words and descriptions strong enough ? Bold enough to give justice to the magnitude of feelings and emotions this book evoked within me ? Still days after I closed the back flap over the last pageif I think about it too much I 'm right back there . Right back in the mountains . On that hilltop . Waiting.Now I could n't remember the name of this book when I first started reading it . However now I do n't believe I will ever forget the title of this stunningly magnificent novel . This journey through the mountains of Spain is not one that you should miss . I highly recommend you immerse yourself in the lives of these people as soon as you can . You will not regret it . ",4
"This novel brings one into close contact with the forces in dreadful conflict during civil warSolidarity versus Brutality Hemingway portrays both thoroughly . The story told by Pilar in this book seemed to haunt me for a few days the images were so clear and as one will find by reading it it is a story which has a very grave lucidity as if you wished Hemingway would drown the scene in a sea of lifeless and complex words . The descriptions of the love story and Jordan 's internal motivations immediately soothe the unsettling images of war and the novel as a whole works paradoxically to the point where both sets of images collide and leave the reader both unsettled and fulfilled simultaneously . ",4
"After having read the first half of this book I was bored . Nothing happened . We heard about a future attack but it never happened . But then suddenly at the last few chapters it finally took place . And then the book got so exciting that I sat there gasping for air . I also understood why the boring first half was included because that part was the one that made the last half in to such an incredible experience . And after I read the whole book the first half became exciting too . So buy this book it is the best I have ever read . But keep in mind that the first half is boring . So do not give up . Keep reading it to the end and I promise you the best reading experience you have ever had . It is the first book by Hemmingway I have read but it will not be the last . ",4
"I did n't like ittoo depressingkillings blood warwho needs it even if t was Hemmingway . The main character in the book Robert may have been a self study of Hemmingway himself ! ! ",1
"Hemingway is a stickler for details and it really shows in this book . The story takes place over only 4 days time.It starts with Robert Jordan an American dynamiter who has joined with guerllos to fight the fascists . He is led to a cave by Anselmo an old man early sixties where there is a camp . Pablo is the drunken leader and Pilar is his wife . Robert Jordan is very inner sociable he talks to himself a lot only when he is alone usually it clears his mind.This book was truly amazing from the first word to the very last word . Truly amazing Hemingway is one of the best authors there ever was . It would seem that he was actually there to get the details he put into this book and you can actually see where he is and what he is talking about and that is what the best authors do.Reading reviews on Amazon could not make this book any better or worse so just buy this book and read it I gurantee is will be hard to put down.Mark_Sigel ",4
"I have just finished reading the Kindle edition of For Whom the Bell Tolls . In this book Hemingway speaks from the point of view of a third person omniscient narrator that is the narrator sees into the minds and emotions of all the characters from whose point of view the story unfolds . In this way Hemingway demonstrates his genius for having accurate and sensitive insight into the human spirit.I am impressed by the way he is able to express passion especially in the sex scenes under the constraints of early 20th century censorship . I read this book simultaneously with Sandra Brown 's Hello Darkness reading six chapters of Hemingway to every five chapters of Brown so that I would finish both books at the same time . This truly provided a contrast of how human passions were expressed in early 20th century novels compared with how they are expressed today . You should try it ! It 's an eyeopener ! What some would judge as repetitive prose in Hemingway was actually a literary device he used to bring the reader into the experience and in my opinion and of course the opinions of countless other readers and critics Hemingway succeeds famously . I also found it very amusing to read how Hemingway skirted around the expression of unprintable language a hindrance contemporary authors no longer need to be concerned about & ltg > Another device Hemingway uses in this novel is to make his characters think in Spanish but speak in English . This is not easy to accomplish successfully . Because I am bilingual I found the rhythm of the prose quite natural but I wonder how the experience would be for an onlyEnglish speaking reader.This is my second Hemingway novel and I am so grateful that I have been introduced to Hemingway on Kindle . Because I read this on Kindle for PC I was able to conveniently and quickly look up not only the definitions of words I did not know but also the translations of Spanish phrases with which I was unfamiliar . Thank you Kindle ! It made reading this book much more interesting and informative . It has also spurred an interest in the history of the Spanish Revolution which took place in the decade before I was born . Of course Kindle has satisfied that curiosity as well.This is more than a worthwhile read for anyone who enjoys war novels . One learns so much from reading I 've always said fiction is the best medium for speaking truth and Truth whatever that means to each one individually abounds in this book . Enjoy ! ",4
"If you 're a Hemingway fan then you should not miss this book . There 's a reason why many people feel this is his best novel . The scenery character development plot and overall picture in words make this a masterpiece . With the Spanish civil war as his launching point he makes great strides in making the reader feel the grip of ANY war past or present . What you get here is a lot of his philosophy on war life love and death . A theme with which he was more than passively familiar having had several neardeath experiences until he finally took his own life . Compared to many of his other works the ending is also somewhat of a fresh surprise . The John Donne quote cited in the fly leaf speaks volumes about the current troubles in the world today . Like all great literature despite being written more than sixty years ago this book still feels fresh and new . ",3
"For Whom the Bell Tolls is Ernest Hemingway running a bit to flab . A master of constructing concentrated scenes of great power often using dialogue alone or with vividly rendered details sparsely catalogued Hemingway I think starts to get lost when he begins piling up the words and nowhere did he pile them up more than in this work his longest ever . That 's not to say that as a consequence the novel is a failure . In fact there are many fabulous scenes in this novel from the excruciating narration of how one village executed its fascist sympathizers and another executed its Republican mayor and his wife to scenes where characters verbally joust while the underlying tension almost sweats from the walls . There are also vivid battle scenes where we feel the intensity experienced by the characters and another involving a sojourn across the battle lines to deliver an important message.Unfortunately there are also a number of scenes where the dialogue spins off into desultory BS sessions to no great purpose and extended internal monologues that feel like Hemingway never edited down his raw rough draft . Perhaps worst of all are the intimate interludes between the central character Robert Jordan and the heroine Maria which to me are some of the silliest sex scenes I 've ever read little rabbit ? . These scenes cartwheel into the offensive when they imply that the worst thing about the gang rape Maria experienced is that it might be a turnoff for Jordan . Frankly I found Hemingway 's vicarious need through Jordan to be the virile but sensitive manly man to the naive submissive sexually and psychically damaged Maria rather creepy.As for the length of For Whom the Bell Tolls I think it was very deliberate on Hemingway 's part . When the novel was published in 1940 Hemingway was coming off a lackadaisical decade in which his only major works were a pair of rather selfindulgent nonfiction works about two of his hobbyhorses bullfighting Death in the Afternoon and big game hunting The Green Hills of Africa and the slipshod novel To Have and Have Not which reminded nobody that the same guy had also written The Sun Also Rises and A Farewell to Arms . True he had also produced a number of very fine short stories The Snows of Kilimanjaro The Short Happy Life of Francis MacComber during this period but Bells to me just seems like Hemingway 's deliberate attempt to show that he can produce prose in volume with the best of them . But like I said that 's not playing to his strengths.One other note I would like to mention is Hemingway 's take on the internal politics of the Spanish Republican side which were dysfunctional to say the least . He seems remarkably sanguine about Soviet influence which seems very naive compared with the much more measured view taken by George Orwell in Homage to Catalonia . Of course by the time For Whom the Bell Tolls was published in late 1940 the verdict was in in Spain the good guys lost and the fascists Germany and Italy and the Communists the Soviet Union had gone on to other predations.I 'm sorry for dwelling more on the faults than the virtues of this book in this review . I really did enjoy reading it again but I figured the virtues were already well documented by the many fivestar reviews here so I thought I 'd give my thoughts on things that have n't been mentioned as much but which I think are important to keep in mind when reading For Whom the Bell Tolls . ",3
"This is an incredibly good book . Hemingway summoned all his superior storytelling powers and forged an unforgettable wartime epic . Complex layered and populated by memorable characters FHTBT is a true masterpiece . It is like an Iliad for the 20thcentury man . The tragedy injustice of war engulfing good and bad human beings alike in its remorseless swirl is brought to life with astounding attention to detail and humanistic depth . As you may know the story takes place during the Spanish Civil War a brutal conflict that not only tore apart the fabric of Spain 's society but also involved armies and volunteers from the great powers and ideologies of the time most notably the tyrannies of Soviet Communism and GermanItalian fascism.There is no facile characterization of heroes and villains on this book . Most of the narrative zooms in on the struggle of a small band of mountain guerrilla fighters who are summoned into nearsuicidal action by the arrival of American volunteer Robert Jordan with orders from the Republic . That you know in the great scheme of things their call to sacrifice and their violence is just another futile exercise in a brutal war makes it all the more poignant . And Hemingway adds enough insight into the workings of the greater armies and the machinations of politicians so the reader experiences the bigger picture as well.In the book you find an intimate tale of struggle and courage in time of war a moving love story a critical view of the ideologies and idealism of the era a couple of shortstories on bullfighting brutally honest accounts of war atrocities from both sides and moments of introspection in questions of love life death and hope that are as deep and moving as any . But do n't forget about the adventure and suspense Hemingway was a man of action and this is a book of men and women on a mission . You will be hooked and on the edge of your seat all the way to the bittersweet ? end.The last chapter is the most gripping piece of fiction I ever recall reading . It is unbelievably good and Hemingway proves one more time he is a master of story endings . ",4
"For someone interested in WWII history and Hemingway this is a great read . Could n't put it down . Just spend the money and buy it you wo n't regret it . ",4
"I feel bad giving a one star review on this because the paperback is printed very well and it looks very high class . but this one is all Hemingway 's fault . I LOVE classic books . I am an avid reader and I read books by Faulkner Proust Gabriel Garcia Marquez and Victor Hugo in my free time . I was not assigned this and actually if anything I set out predisposed to like this book that said there were very few good things about this book . If you want to learn more about the Spanish civil war this book might be for you but if you care about characters plot or writing style this book is destined to disappoint . I ca n't believe I 'm saying this about someone whose name is synonomous with a writer eg . I 'm no Hemingway but but this book was poorly written . ",0
"I tried to get through it I really did . But then I remembered what a chore it was in High School when two of his novels were required reading . It bored me stiff then and it does now . But I have found that with Hemingway he 's either your cup of tea or he is n't . The characters are shallow and I do n't like his writing style in any of his stories . Personal choice to each his own . As the reviews show some love it some do n't . I do n't . But at least I wo n't resort to name calling like some reviewers do when someone does n't share their opinion . If you 've never read it give it a try you may love it . If you do n't its not indicative of your intelligence level as some would have us believe . ",2
"I had put off reading this book because I felt it would be boring . I was so very very wrong ! Granted I have not read everything Hemingway has written but I find it difficult to believe he could have written anything to surpass this novel . I am thankful that I read A Farewell To Arms and The Sun Also Rises before reading this book as it would have set the standard too high.In the previous books by Hemingway that I 've read he did n't seem to develop the characters fully and many of the scenes were only the sparcest of details . It seemed much had to be filled in by the reader . But 15 years after writing The Sun Also Rises Hemingway breaks through with For Whom The Bell Tolls ! In this book Hemingway gives depth to his characters the reader comes to know understand and identify with each character in this book . Hemingway also provides a wonderful description of the area . One can almost envision the mountains and villages and the bridge which plays a central role . During the scenes involving fighting the reader can almost hear the gun shots and watch the anguish of those injured or killed . Even in the quiet times of the book the reader can easily place themselves at the same table as the characters and truly feel they are a part of the story.The ending is easily figured out but that does n't seem to matter . Even though the reader might suspect or even know what is to happen the events leading up to it keep the reader enthralled.This book is a real pageturner and Hemingway at his best . This is not just a guy 's book not at all ! This is a story for both genders . Treat yourself to a literary masterpiece ! You will not be disappointed ! ",4
"Written in typical Hemingwayesque ploddingly simple style this book morphs English and Spanish in a unique manner for its period 1940 which subsequent writers have copied or embellished . Spain is Hemingway 's love . During this time most loved Paris like friend Fitzgerald . But dry heat and bull running mania were for for this man.Spanish sayings abound in this novel about simple people asked to do a job perhaps simple in the name of the cause blow up a bridge . But the pithy and poignant statements of implyingly illiterate gypsy Pilar can not be matched by 17th century philosophers . For example Spain in her words is where blasphemy keeps pace with the austerity of religion.When protagonist Robert Jordan speaks English for a short time to some of the group Pilar tells him to revert to Spanish as no language is truer . She later concludes that Spanish is shorter and simpler.And Hemingway 's influence on this language shows as some verbs are paradoxically used each time the root of Spanish for English usage . One example is to constantly implement Spanish molestar in English sentences to ask that people stop molesting one another when the translation is not to bother one another.But these linguistic nuances are the special effect the unique style the cutting edge to the Nobel winning writing style of Hemingway . It is the sentences of Spanglish or otherwise compounded with his ever seemless simplification that make this novel resound.I enjoyed this novel also for its slow beginning and its heightening to a crescendo for its ending . His language and other writing angles seem to mature as the novel progresses . He slowly captures the reader and has you under his exclusive control the last third of the book.Although Hemingway makes this a love story at a time of war parts are seemingly unreal . Knowing that he is going to die the next day Robert Jordan meets one last time with beautiful Maria . And as they are about to start doing the deed he stops and asks if she hurts . I am sure that you can interview many a disagreeing soldier under similar circumstances and ask if the concept of pain to the sexual partner ever entered their mind when they were having what would perhaps be their last moment of heaven on this man 's earth they would all agree that this was not exactly what they had in mindBut this is a classic and worthy of reading . I waited over 40 years between readings and received very different messages . Each time good . ",4
"This version of the book has been censored to the point where parts of the dialog are difficult to understand . Anyone who is familiar with Hemingway should know to expect some profanity . The book itself is very good . I 'm only about half way through it and I like the style the pace tends to drag a little in places . ",2
"Robert Jordan an American joins a guerrilla force fighting against the Facist government in Spain . It is 1937 at the peak of the Spanish Civil War and Jordan has been sent to blow up a bridge.Jordan is a dynamiter who knows weapons and military strategies . Among the gurerillas is a young woman Maria who becomes attracted to him.A man named Pablo appears to be in charge . However it is his wife Pilar who is the real force behind the group . Pilar is Spanish for pillar and is a symbol of the steadfastness of the group . During the early action of the story it seems that Pilar 's resolve for fighting has changed and he often resorts to drinking.Amidst the talk of killing we follow the activities of Robert and Marie . This mixture of love and war is a significant juxtaposition used by the author . With the tender moments of these two characters it is as if this might be what the guerrilas are fighting for . The government 's totalarianism attitude can not tell them what to do and that gypsies like Rafael foreigners like Robert women like Pilar and Marie can all work and live together as equals.Hemingway has a master 's givt for dialogue . We do n't just read the words but are transported to the Spanish mountainside and are listening to the scenes such as Pilar and Pablo discussing a matador that Pable had seen and admired . It is so real that we can almost hear the crowd chant ole'.Hemindway was a reporter in Spain during the Civil War and his characters are honest in their actions loyal to one another and Spain and are described in great detail.The story mixes historical fact and speculative fiction in a most entertaining manner . Readers will enjoy the novel and feel as though they have read a work of extroadinary literary significance . ",4
"Hemmingway touched my heart as a reader in a way no author ever has . I can not put down in words to describe the kind of masterpiece this novel is . ",4
"Set during the Spanish Civil War Ernest Hemingway 's For Whom the Bell Tolls tells the story of Robert Jordan a young American who is serving as a demolitions expert for the Republican cause . The novel follows his experiences with a band of guerrilla fighters as he undertakes a mission to blow up a strategic bridge . The whole novel except for some flashbacks and reminiscences of various characters covers just a few days.Although the novel focuses on a small number of characters in a fairly compressed time period Hemingway attains a real epic feel with this book . The novel is fairly lengthy 471 pages in the 2003 Scribner edition but I found it to be a swift readindeed often difficult to put down . There is much that is noteworthy about this novel . It offers a compelling perspective on war from the viewpoint of guerrilla forces rather than conventional forces interested readers might want to check out Mao TseTung 's On Guerrilla Warfare for some theoretical and historical perspective . The novel also deals with the phenomenon of ideologically committed foreign forces in Spain 's FascistversusRepublican conflict.Hemingway deals with the issues of love and sex in a combat zone as well as with the roles of women in a guerrilla force . Other significant issues include loyalty leadership communications military hardware the impact of weather and terrain and the connection between guerrilla and conventional forces . Particularly interesting is Hemingway 's portrait of Robert Jordan as a technically and tactically skilled guerrilla fighter and as a leader of guerrilla fighters . Thus the book should interest not just lovers of literature but also serious military professionals and students of the history of warfare.Hemingway offers a grim and graphic look at the brutality of 20th century warfare . War is not glamorized or sanitized and atrocities are described in unflinching detail . The characters explore the ethics of killing in war . As the story progresses Hemingway skillfully peels back the layers of Jordan and other characters to reveal their psychological wounds . But the book is not all about pain and violence . In the midst of war Hemingway finds the joy and beauty that keep his characters going . He also incorporates storytelling as a powerful motif in the book his characters share stories with each other recall missing untold stories or resist a story too hard to bear . In Hemingway 's world storytelling is as essential a human activity as eating fighting and lovemaking.Hemingway 's writing appeals to all the senses as he creates some vivid scenes . He demonstrates his mastery of the art of fiction he continually makes interesting choices and creates some really striking and beautiful passages . For Whom the Bell Tolls is an exceptionally haunting work of literature I consider this rich and rewarding text to be an essential volume in the canon of war fiction . For intriguing companion texts that also deal with the Spanish Civil War I recommend Spain 's Cause Was Mine A Memoir of an American Medic in the Spanish Civil War by Hank Rubin and The Confessions of Senora Francesca Navarro and Other Stories by Natalie L. M. Petesch . ",4
"If you like Hemmingway you will like this book . Classic tale of the Spanish Civil War prior to WWII . Enjoy ! ",4
"This book has great passages as other reviewers have pointed out like Pilar 's tale or El Sordo 's last stand but is otherwise too long . It has three major flaws1 . The hero 's love interest Maria is a uninteresting and unattractive . Most of the other characters feel like fleshandblood flawed people but for reasons I ca n't fathom the author gave Maria the psychological depth of a pet.2 . The hero 's dialogs with Spaniards are in a distracting and ridiculous form resulting in lines like Eatest thou always onions for breakfast ? 3 . The characters ' swearing is clumsily bleeped out with lines like Obscenity thy mother ! At first I thought that the Kindle edition I was reading had been censored and returned it . I switched to Scribner 's 1968 print edition and found the same . I can not believe that Hemingway actually wrote that way.Another strange passage that is also dating the book is one where the hero views himself as taking part in a crusade adding That was the only word for it although it was a word that had been so worn and abused that it no longer gave its true meaning . And what exactly is the true meaning of crusade ? Historians have long known that crusaders were nothing but thugs rampaging through the MiddleEast . Even Voltaire wrote about it in the mid 18th centuryThe Crusades Through Arab Eyes 23 years ago . Yet Europeans and Americans have until recently used the crusades as a symbol of a generous and benevolent undertaking . EvenCrusade in Europereferred to the liberation of Europe as a crusade . ",1
"Ernest Hemingway was one of the most popular influential and charismatic of the American 20th century novelists . Books On Tape has undertaken to publishing an unabridged audiobook edition of Hemingway 's body of work . Ably narrated by Alexander Adams For Whom The Bell Tolls is Hemingway 's classic story of Robert Jordan an American fighting with antifascist guerillas in the mountains of Spain . This riveting novel of loyalty and courage love and defeat inspired idealism and battlefield disenchantment is a timeless testament . ",4
"I 'll be short and sweet . This is an excellent book that many different kinds of people will enjoy . The more intelligent the reader is the more he or she will get out of the book . At the base it is a story that will keep you on the edge of your seat . From there there are many little symbolic happenings and hidden meanings waiting to be seen . For Whom the Bell Tolls is a must read book ! ",4
"Precise and elegiac in the opening pages ponderous and selfindulgent for much of the middle and finally at its end heartbreakingly genuine . It 's fashionable these days to poke fun at Hemingway 's excesses but when the stars aligned my god that man could surely write . ",3
"Great storythat I probably had n't read since high school ! What a storyteller ! I 'm going to go back to read more Hemingway . ",4
"For Whom the Bell Tolls is equally very engaging and very dull . Occasionally this novel cracks with energy the tension among the characters is quite potent and then at other times it bores you near sleep . The rambling monolgues can be greatlike when Pilar is detailing Pablo 's once fervent commitment to the cause and then at other times the words seem to be an annoying roadblock that you have to wade through to get to the meaty parts . All in all I respect this novel and do think it is a good work but I ca n't give it more than 3 stars because of the chores it sometimes put me through . ",2
"The decades since Hemingway 's death have not been kind to his legacy . While still revered as a pillar of English literature his life seems to have chipped away at his work . Most find Hemingway 's writing too dry or his stories clustered with masogny and booze . To be fair the critiques have some relevance but behind every Hemingway story lies a heart fractured but aspiring for peace . For Whom the bell Tolls was my fourth Hemingway and I can honestly say my favorite . There is so much to marvel at that my meager attempts at a review do the book no justice but it 's the way Hemingway writes and the subtle beauty that he evokes that made this novel so enjoyable for me . Hemingway 's prose style is so intricate it at once appears etched in stone but light as a feather . Hemingway shows how war not only changes the way we feel and act but the bonds we form with the ones around us . Robert Jordan 's relationship with Maria is one of the few hemingway 's love stories that I felt connected to and while a bit dated in today 's world I still was touched by the love they bore one another . Maria is encapsulated in a blanket of femine weakness but she is bolstered by the mighty Pilar . I find Pilar to be one of hemingway 's most fascinating women . Endless papers can be written on her alone and I found her to be so multifaceted . Besides being one of hemingway 's best novels it 's also one of his longest . At first I was daunted by 400 pages of dry Hemingway prose but by the end I was looking for more . Besides shining light on an area of world history few even know existedthe Spanish Civil War Hemingway 's story is universal in it 's telling by including themes of fraternity nationalism and the multifaceted definitions of courage . I have a new respect and love for Hemingway after reading this remarkable novel . While Hemingway may not be everyones cup of tea but those looking for a good and memorable story should look no further ! ",4
"I 've been looking for a nice paperback copy to add to my collection and this was it ! ! ! Very good condition and good price . ",4
"I love almost all of Hemingway 's novels but this one was a daunting effort . Line by line or a paragraph at a time the writing is Hemingway at his best . Yet inexplicably I found that as one chapter segued interminably to the next the story and style became muddled and could not sustain my interest . There is much however that is worth the timethemes of monogamous love warconscience lifedeath . The heart wrenching finale illustrates the notorious heman 's mastery to convey softer feminine sensitivity . Definitely not the one to kick off a reader 's Hemingway exposure . ",2
"If I had to recommend a single Hemingway book that would probably be this one . It 's not your typical early Hemingway and that 's not a negative critic . The book is emotional some passages are just really impressive . I think it 's the one I preferred of all the books by Ernie that I read.One thing that makes this book special is the direct speeches . If you read this book you will not fail to notice a certain touch of 17th century in the way people speak to each other . I thought I would explain the reason for this as it is not selfexplanatory for people who are native englishspeakers . Spanish is a language where you have two forms of second person you as in french and formerly English . This is the difference between the you and the thou which is used in this novel . Formerly the you was the polite form and the thou the familiar form not the religious form as many might think since the only use where you actually hear it anymore is for religious stuff . So whenever you see thou being used in the novel you know it means familiarity as in old english . If I remember correctly Hemingway also uses turns of phrases in such a way that it makes them sound latin the way it would be done in Spanish which is the goal . This is a bit weird I have to admit but you 'll get used to it just keep in mind it 's used to approach more closely the reality of the Spanish language and thus have a better translation.Worth reading . ",3
"It happened before I finished this book . It was the final epic scene upon the bridge . You 'll know the one when you get there . I started to cry . I felt it coming for a few chapters and then finally it came out and I wept . I 'd never done that with a novel before cried and I did n't stop myself . It was n't that the story was the saddest thing I 'd ever read or imagined . It 's a Hemingway novel and my favorite author has a way of punching you in the stomach when he 's closing out a novel . For examples check out ' A Farewell to Arms ' or 'Islands in the Stream ' . So I was n't too surprised to see how this epic magnificent novel was unfolding in its final tragic and violent glory . What suddenly struck me like an icy blade into my heart was the realization that I was reading the truest book that I 'd ever read and probably would ever read . The enormity of that was too much to bear . I felt as if I was there and all the emotions that came in something so highly stressful dutiful and chaotic came flooding in . Let me say that I 'm a veteran of the US Army and I was deployed to the Middle East in 2009 but that I 've never shot at another person or killed anyone . But I have however been in numerous very high stress situations that flooded my core with anxiety and a sense of duty . Reading 'For Whom the Bell Tolls ' rubbed some of those scars raw and I 'm thankful for that . I 'm not angered that Hemingway 's utterly poignant writing showed me things that I 'd left behind in the darkest days of my own life . This novel showed me in the truest way imaginable that there is such beauty and love to be found in duty and conflict and it showed me that there 's nothing wrong in fighting and standing your ground for something that may not survive the test of time just as the rebel guerrillas in Spain were ultimately doomed to fail against the Fascists . Robert Jordan will now rank alongside Thomas Hudson and David Bourne as some of the most memorable protagonists of literature that I 've ever had the pleasure of reading about . ",4
"I got the book because of a recommandation and because of the cool quote . I 've read The Old Man and The Sea in High School and hated it . But Form Whom The Bell Tolls is brilliant.What impreses me about the book is how Hemingway manages to come up with a tightly written action tale with deep philosophycal ideas and a great romance.I 've read alot and For Whom The Bel Tolls is my second favorite bookyou ca n't afford missing it ",4
"This is a novel about the Spanish Civi War specifically the story of an American who works with a group of partisans to sabotage a bridge . The story takes place over three days but the book runs in excess of four hundred pages . As a result the pace can get slow at times . No background is given on the war but Hemingway 's sympathies are clear the fascists must be defeated and the worth of personal sacrifices is determined in how they further the greater good . Hemingway develops some interesting characters particularly Pablo a disillusioned partisan leader whose murderous actions in support of a noble cause lead him to alcoholism and defeatism . The American protagonist is most interesting a cynic who still believes in a cause outside himself . The romantic relationship between the American and a Spanish girl was not the novel 's strength Hemingway did not make his career drafting love stories . Although a bit slow some of the scenes are fantastic . In particular the flashback to the murder of fascist sympathizers in a small village is one of the most horrifying chapters I have ever read . Likewise an account of a partisan group 's last stand on a hilltop puts most Hollywood action movies to shame . Liked the book but did not love it . Probably for people who really dig Hemingway or want a bottomup look at the Spanish conflict . ",3
"This book is the ghost of what was once Heroic about men from a time long ago . It is antidouche bag and thus probably not popular in modern times . ",4
"This is a tough book to write about . How many ways are there to say brilliant ? This was a reread for me of a war story and love story . The book far surpasses both . It was the first to describe war as it really is with flawed heroes horrible treatment of the civilian population by both sides guerrillas who are both cruel and afraid madmen in commanding positions etc . It also tells about the Spanish Civil War so for people are unaware that there actually was such a war it is an eyeopener on the prelude to WWII . The book is appalling and beautiful at the same time . Please read it or reread it ! ",4
"FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS is a great book if you are interested in the history of the Spanish Civil War . It is also useful if you are seeking insights into Hemingway . So much of the novel is taken directly from the author 's experiences as a foreign correspondent in Spain for the North American Newspaper Alliance.There are many facets of the book which contribute to its outstanding reputation . Hemingway 's treatment of Robert Jordan the protagonist is exceptional . Jordan is a very complicated man who is radically transformed by the events described in the book . He is also the first Hemingway hero to contemplate suicide.El Sordo is a leader of another guerilla band which is operating in the same territory as the band in which Jordan serves as an aide . The description of El Sordo 's last stand on a hill against the Nationalists is an example of Hemingway 's best writing . ",4
"I loved Farewell to Arms so I picked this up at the bookstore near work and could n't put it down . It really grabbed me . While the first chapter in any Hemingway book is difficult due to his lack of immediate characterization it soon becomes easy to understand . I loved the dialogues between Pilar Jordan and Maria . They were so funny . I even learned some Spanish . I love Hemingway 's prose and for a while I tried to model my own writings after his . Unfortunately I 'm not as good as he is at it . Anyway this book has inspired me to go to Spain for my semester abroad and to research the Spanish Civil War more deeply . Great novel that happens to be educational . ",4
"Just about anything Hemingway ever wrote was pretty good and you really ca n't go wrong with him if you 're looking for a good read . He is at his very best though in this one . It was written at the peak of his power and is rightly considered one of the great novels of the twentieth century.Like all great novels it gives you new insight as you reread it over the years . When a teenager I recall being enthralled by the love story and the pure adventure of it . As a young adult it was the tragicomic nature of the characters which was so engrossing . Later on as an adult I was struck by Hemingway 's view of the bleak futile nature of human endeavor . This time around it was the political discourse I found to be thoughtprovoking sections of the novel that in the past I had pretty much glossed through.A lot of the talkfrom all of the characterswas that in order to make change it was necessary to kill those who stood in the way of it . Each of them to varying degrees agreed with this . And it struck me that this was the prevailing worldwide philosophy of the time . Hitler and Stalin of course were the extreme examples but this kind of thinking was prevalent here as well . There was an awful lot of sympathy in the good ole U. S. for what the Soviet Union was trying to accomplish and although we never got to the point in this country where people were getting killed FDR wielded his power like it was his personal possession . The point I think is that there is always someone in the world who is absolutely sure they know what 's best for you . When someone like this gets in power watch out.In any event Hemingway is pretty evenhanded about it and this commentary is actually only a small part of the novel . The story as everybody knows is about American Robert Jordan who is sent by his communist masters during the Spanish Civil War to the mountains in order to blow up a bridge . There he is assisted by the guerrilla band led by Pilar and Pablo which is comprised of the most memorable set of characters you will ever meet in literature.There is old Anselmo perhaps the noblest of them all dedicated and faithful to the cause who agonizes over those he must kill and prays that he will be forgiven . There is Rafael the gipsy incapable of staying at his post as he delightedly snares a couple of plump rabbits . There is the stolid and dull Fernando oblivious to wit or doubleentendre . There is the fierce Augustin utterly committed to the cause.And then there is Maria the nineteenyear old refugeewith deep horrible secretsand with whom Roberto falls hopelessly in love . It is the kind of love affair that is utterly captivating to the reader and the kind of thing that only great authors are able to pull off . Robert is drawn to her coltish longlegged grace her cropped red hair her brown swarthy skin . Hemingway spends a lot of time on Robert 's thoughts about her and a lot of time with the two of them together . Their spoken endearments to one anotheroften playful sometimes silly occasionally solemncould have easily slipped into the realm of the ridiculous but never does under the sure hand of the great Hemingway . It is instead extremely moving and it should be mentioned that this is extremely risky to pull off.And Pablo . Once the fiercest of the Republicans he is now wellfed and content in his mountain hideaway has a dozen or so horses that make him rich and knows that the actions contemplated by Roberto will bring an end to his safety . He is a schemer Pablo a clever ruthless wretch and many of the plot twists stem from his machinations.And finally Pilar the spectacular magnificent Pilar Pablo 's wife . Her character is justifiably recognized for her description of the smell of death and her description of the day that the loyalists drove the fascists out of her townby forcing them to jump to their deaths one at a time over a cliffbut to me it is the smaller things that make her such an unforgettable character . She is bitter when the young man turns away from her when he is asked to kiss her understanding that she has never been beautiful and knowing now that she is to him repulsive . She describes in memorable detail her love affair with a matador in Valencia and how she drank cold beer with the sweat dripping off the glass while he napped in the room behind her . She is coarse and often crude but never cruel she is hard as stone but as deeply compassionate as anyone . She is a gipsy and a saint and the greatest creation of Hemingway 's career.There is much more to talk about . The style of course is all Hemingway typically descriptive and insightful . But this novel is much richer . For once with his excellent use of interior monologuea practice he had been experimenting with for yearswe finally get to know his characters in depth rather then just viewing them from the outside like they are on a movie screen.Typically his use of language is direct and to the point but again he is at his best in this one so much so that he occasionally treads into the realm of the delightful . For example by design or by necessity Hemingway did not use obscene words in the novel . His creativity though in expressing the vulgar is nothing less than a thrill . Here are the first words out of Pilar 's mouth early on as she castigates the gipsy What are you doing now you lazy drunken obscene unsayable son of an unnamable unmarried gipsy obscenity ? What are you doing ? Absolutely hilarious and there is no way this could have been done better using any kind of vocabulary.Plot characters theme everything . One of the greatest at his best . A novel not to be missed . ",4
"this book is a drunkolgue . of course it 's very well written . the style is a style of a superb journalist . but the characters ' alcoholism is piercing . the choices they make are hardly romantic rather they are tragic . the emptiness of the spirit hidden behind the spirit of alcohol pierces through . how so many mice and men have fashioned their lives after this novel puzzles me . ",2
"Hemingway is arguably one of the best war novelists to have ever lived and For Whom the Bell Tolls shows why.He describes the scenery so well that one can picture witnessing the landscape first hand . The characters are pretty well developed too.Definitely great for those who love war novels historical fiction andor love stories . ",4
"Geez who am I as a novice author to make a comment or review on Hemingway.I read this book to gain an insight into dialogue . What an insight that was . It runs from start to finish.I had an advantage of having seen the film albeit a long time ago but that made the book even more interesing to me personally as I could not only read the dialogue but visualise the characters better and hear them in my mind.It taught me a great deal and I hope some of it will rub off into my own future scribbles.I will now be reading other works of his ",4
"For Whom the Bell Tolls is a story that will be with you forever after you have finished the last riveting page . All other books will be judged by standards set by Hemmmingway in this one . The Tragic story of Robert Jordan and his love Maria is more amazing than any other I have read seen or heard . El Sordo 's final stand reads the way the greatest symphony is heard . Tension and crescendo that builds and builds until you become one with the characters and their struggle . I have never read a book that ends like this one and chances are a first time reader has not either . Get this book . Read it . This IS writting . ",4
"I like this Hemingway book even better than A Farewell to Arms . It stayed with me long after I had forgotten most of the details . I read the book as a university freshman then reread it after it came strongly to mind in summer 1987 . I was standing on a steep green meadow in Schwarzwald reshuffling the deck of life . Like a Hemingway character I was traveling around Europe living an adventure.Descriptions of many scenes are memorable . Reading as a twenty year old dynamiting the bridge and the part where Maria crawls under the blanket with Robert Jordan were the strongest . One still likes those descriptions twentyfive years later but one then also pays attention to the long description of old dead roses as the essence of the odor of death . And one never forgets the powerful ending . Here 's how I remembered the ending before rereading it yesterday Robert Jordan mortally wounded sends the pregnant Maria toward safety with the rest of his escaping band of comrades . Lying on his stomach on the steep meadow as Franco 's fascist troops come up the hillside into sight he pulls back the bolt and takes a bead on the lead officer on horseback .Because all dialogues in the book should take place in Spanish Hemingway wrote partly in the early seventeenth century English of John Donne readers familiar with the king James Version of the Bible translated early in the seventeenth century will easily recognize the language . This has the advantage of giving the reader the sensation of reading 'notEnglish'.It 's still a very powerful book . In the context of history Hemingway was impregnated with the Teddy Roosevelt brand of heroism . ",4
"I 've probably read this book over 4 or 5 times throughout the years first having read it as part of an assignment in a High School English class . This is my absolute favorite book and I 'll tell you why . As many reviewers have already pointed out this book is enjoyable on so many levels the characters are deep and complex the questions about their purpose are deep.As a native Spanish speaker I truly enjoy this book much more because Hemingway 's prose is an exact translation of how the characters would speak in their Spanish setting which I only realize now living in Puerto Rico and rereading this masterpiece after many years and two war tours . The conversations which may seem awkward to a nonSpanish speaker are perfectly natural if translated into Spanish adding to the realism of his tale . Chalk this up to Hemingway 's genius and his ability to create realistic worlds in which his characters live and die . ",4
"The presentation of this book is enjoyable own excellent work which can be read nimbly and with some ease and this time . ",4
"I 've read this novel seven perhaps eight times and with this last reading I opened my eyes and was allowed yet another glimpse into the depth of Hemingway 's mind . Others have called this work simplistic its title unrelated to the book 's content something to be idolized by high school English teachers . Ha ! If you read only to be entertained you will miss some of the most poignant features of the work.For me the characters come alive in the book . They live and breathe as human beings most certainly did during the Spanish Revolution Golz Anselmo El Sordo Pablo and Pilar . And although Robert Jordan 's intimacy with Maria is cloaked in euphemisms to get it past the censors when the book was first written in 1939 I got the point the two of them as sometimes happens once or twice in life were inexplicably drawn to each other . It 's not something carnal or obscene it 's something divine and that which one should be eternally thankful for . Certainly Hemingway must have realized this when he created the characters of Robert and Maria.The ending was written some thirtyeight times in an attempt to get the words right and that speaks volumes about the author 's diligence in producing a work of literature that will last the ages . The love which Robert Jordan had for Maria is evidenced in his desire to see her safely away to give up his life that she may move on and live her life . He knows he is mucked yet he kindly but forcibly tells Maria they will always be together . Now that 's love ! I give this work my highest rating . ",4
"I revisited this book in my early 40 's and came away resold on Hemingway as one of America 's greatest writers and an artist who stands the test of time . It 's a shame in fact that Hemingway 's caricaturefriendly persona life and writing style have sometimes obsured his work . Forget the macho image and the stories of drinking and hunting . He is an artist of the first order.For Whom is a novel about the important things life love death fear the attraction and horror of war . What struck me throughout was how innocent the characters are and how genuinely Hemingway depicts the most difficult subjects be it war in this case the Spanish Civil War or the love between Maria and Robert Jordan.Hemingway is a writer we need in our times . He focuses on the big important issues without cynicism and never shies from exposing what is in our hearts and minds . A classic . ",4
"This is one of several Hemingway books I have come to read actually in this case listen to.I loathe idling about so I decided while I wait wherever that maybe I would listen to an audiobook . I prefer the unabridged versions which in this case was quite long.I found the subject matter mysteriously complex who does n't find love complex yet simplistic in it 's exposition true to Hemingway 's style.Each character is carefully developed and hisher relationships meticulously crafted and consistent with their dispositions.Hemingway explores humanity and allows us a glimpse of it in the most trying circumstances.love and war.It really is very hard to discuss the book without ruining details and the outcome so I will stop here.I would suggest getting the audicopy on ipod and listening to it on your next long journey overseas . ",3
"This is book is the one to read if you really enjoy reading . Hemingway 's work is just superb the bold symbolism and metaphors make this a must have in your bookshelf . His style is simple writing yet under its surface lies a much deeper aspect and meaning . This is Hemingway at its best . If you like literature you will apreciate it and once you finish you feel enticed by his way of writing . As I said Simply Hemingway ! ",4
"Hemingway has written a masterpiece weaving together the human with the politics of the war in a tapestry richly layered . The evocation of Robert Jordan 's love for Maria is poignant and convincing . The existential threat facing everyone is played out according to their moral stance and passion . The climax of the book is an exquisite melding together of everything that came before.I reread it after many years while in Spain a fortuitous experience . The final passage brought me to tears . ",4
"There 's a reason that Senator and former POW John McCain as well current President Barrack Obama both named this book as a personal favorite . It is a book that has inspired its fair share of leaders over the years and will do the same for you . It 's simply that good ! With two masterpieces under his belt The Sun Also Rises and A Farewell to Arms which described in crushing detail the physical and emotional wounds suffered during war of love lost and hope destroyed and of the depression and disillusionment experienced by the group of Americans known as the Lost Generation Ernest Hemingway could have written nothing else and he already would have gone down as one of the greatest writers of the 20th century . Then in 1940 he published For Whom the Bell Tolls which would become another masterpiece the master at his best writing about all of the themes that had become central to his life Courage duty love death honor and idealism.It is the story of Robert Jordan an American demolition specialist attached to a band of Spanish guerrillas sent to destroy bridges during the Spanish Civil War . He is a professional and knows his mission is a bad one that is unlikely to make any real difference in the fight but for some reason he feels compelled to complete it anyways.Over three days of hiding out with a band of rebels he falls in love with a beautiful young Spanish girl named Maria . He also realizes how doomed their mission really is and that he must accept what fate has given him and do his duty regardless however bitter it may be . He must press on to destroy the bridges he came to destroy.Jordan proves that life no matter how long or short can be deeply heroic and full of purpose when we take the right action . He convinces himself of this through his own selftalk which Hemingway gives to us throughout the book as a sort of code of ethics a model to live bySo if your life trades its seventy years for seventy hours I have that value now and I am lucky enough to know it . And if there is not any such thing as a long time nor the rest of our lives nor from now on but there is only now why then now is the thing to praise and I am very happy with it You must make your whole life in the two nights that are given to you that living as we do now you must concentrate all of that which you should always have into the short time that you can have it You have it now and that is all your whole life is now . There is nothing else than now . There is neither yesterday certainly nor is there any tomorrow . How old must you be before you know that ? There is only now and if now is only two days then two days is your life and everything in it will be in proportion . This is how you live a life in two days . And if you stop complaining and asking for what you never will get you will have a good life . A good life is not measured by any biblical span.Jordan exhibits exactly the type of grace under pressure that Hemingway admired and was famous for . He demonstrates that action not outcome is what counts and that despite everything else there is great value in doing one 's duty against overwhelming odds.In For Whom the Bell Tolls Hemingway tells this story with his characteristic prose tragically and poetically as only he can . It is his greatest work . If you choose to read one Hemingway make it this one . It will inspire you for many years . ",4
"Having read two Hemmingway novels I was not impressed . Frankly I was surprised that I did not enjoy them . After growing up and hearing about the great Hemmingway the man 's man I found his characters weak and whinny . Ready to give up I gave him one more try and I am glad he did . This is a magnificent novel.Set in the Spanish Civil War during the 1930s it tells the story of Robert Jordan an American volunteer fighting against Franco and his fascist allies . This is firstrate story telling it grabs the reader from the offset and pulls him into the story . Unlike other Hemmingway novels i.e . The Son Also Rises these are heroic characters that we deeply care about.The imagery is magnificent . I can still see in my minds eye the retreating Republicans the panicked soldiers the horses out of control and the cartridge casings spilled in the road way . If you are unfamiliar with Hemmingway read this book first . All the others will pale in comparison . ",4
"As I read him I just liked his books . Great stories have read most of his works and just gel with him . ",3
"Hemingway 's novel For Whom the Bell Tolls 1940 is toughly realistic in its depiction of the butchery of warfare . The book has the nononsense factintensive style of a reporter . Yet in its themes of love death heroism and human brotherhood Hemingway 's novel is in spite of itself romantic in outlook but romantic with an edge.The novel is set in Spain in 1937 during the Spanish Civil War 19361939 . The Spanish Civil War was a multisided conflict between the democraticallyelected government the Republicans or loyalists and its rightwing anticommunist opponents the nationalists fascists . The Republicans during this conflict had the assistance of the USSR . Their enemies the nationalists were assisted by Nazi Germany and by Italy . Hemingway was a correspondent in Spain at the time . His novel tells the story of Robert Jordan a young American instructor in Spanish at the University of Montana who had earlier spent much time wandering through Spain . In 1936 with the outset of the conflict Jordan volunteered his services to assist the Republicans and became an expert in explosives . Jordan idealizes his grandfather who had been a hero in the American Civil War . Jordan 's father had committed suicide . When the novel opens Jordan is assigned to destroy a bridge in furtherance of a Republican offensive . He works with a group of guerrillas in the mountains.The story unfolds over a time of three days . Hemingway 's book offers portrayals of a group of Jordan 's Spanish compatriots in addition to Jordan himself . Chief among them is a 48year old woman Pilar physically unattractive earthy and strongwilled . She is the de facto leader of her group and is as central to the story as is Jordan . Pilar is the woman of Pablo who was once a formidable fighter but who has become disillusioned by the conflict . The novel includes several scenes of high tension and near violence between Jordan and Pablo . In his efforts to blowup the bridge Jordan is assisted by Anselmo an aged man who despairs of violence and killing but is devoted to the Republican cause . And in the three days of the novel Jordan meets and has a passionate love affair with Maria a lovely 19year old who has been saved from the nationalists by Pablo.Hemingway is known for a terse elliptical writing style and it is on display in this book . But the writing is highly varied with long stream of conscious digressions by Jordan as he reflects upon his past life and upon the conflict in which he has thrust himself . Much of the writing is both figurative and digressive . Hemingway tried to transcribe much of Spanish idiom directly into English particularly the use of thou for the intimate Spanish you . He also makes considerable use of untranslated Spanish phrases . The book captures the speech patterns of soldiers under tension with much use of colorful language . Hemingway does not reproduce this language directly but in English uses phrases such as obscenity or unprintable in place of the words themselves . In addition to telling the story of the bridge and its destruction all the characters engage in long discussions of their thoughts and their prior lives . These discussions generally are directed to the brutality of the war . In an outstanding passage Pilar tells of the destruction under the command of Pablo of a group of fascist leaders who are forced to run the gauntlet before being thrown down a cliff.Hemingway was in love with Spain both for its beauty and its brutality . The novel has many discussions of bullfighting largely told by Pilar as she recounts her experiences with earlier lovers . Pilar also has a power of clairvoyance in the story especially as it relates to impending death . The book includes several vivid battle scenes . One of these scenes tells of the gunningdown by aircraft of a group of five of the guerillas assisting Jordan at the top of a small hill.Aircraft has a large and fearsome presence in the book . Another effective battle scene tells of the difficult destruction of the bridge and its aftermath.The love relationship between Robert Jordan and Maria comes to dominate the novel . The two become passionately attracted to each other and quickly consummate their relationship . The passages describing the couple 's lovemaking are central to the story and effective . The inhumanity of war is juxtaposed against human commitment and the beauty of the everyday . Robert Jordan realizes that he is in love with Maria Spain and with life . This love in the book reaches its peak in heroism and selfsacrifice . Jordan comes to realize what in life he values . It is because of his realization that he ultimately must give up the things he comes to cherish . Within its language of toughness and machismo this novel has the theme of inevitability and of romantic tragedy.This is a book I read in high school many years ago when it was far beyond me . It is not an easy book and not every part of it is successful . But it is an extraordinary novel . I am grateful that I had the opportunity to revisit the book when I was able to try to appreciate it.Robin Friedman ",4
"There is no way to cover in 1000 words everything that this book has to offer . Centering around one man who must undertake one mission with the help of some guerillas in the Spanish Civil War this book is in fact the deepest most complete work on war that has ever been written . Although as I mentioned the whole book is only about Robert Jordan blowing up a single bridge the book widens in scope as it goes on allowing us to see the war from more and more angles through more and more people on both sides of the fight and of all rank and position . It drives homet the point that the title of the book suggests . Ask not for whom the bell tolls the bell tolls for thee . This refers to the church bells that would be rung to announce a death and is part of a larger quote which begins familiarly enough No man is an island . Simply put there is no such thing as isolationism there is no way to not consider yourself a part of the human race . When you hear of someone ! 's death there is no need to wonder whose death it is for whomever it was they were a part of you and so their death is in a way your death . Their jouney was your journey . Thus this book does not allow us to leave any vantage point of this war and this battle unturned and every character relates and reacts to every other character every action has a reaction for no man is an island as this beautifully crafted book points out time and again . ",4
"I did not care much for the story . It was before my time so I have no connection to the events . The big looser for me was the writing style . It was probably a well accepted style at the time but just does not fit in today . Hemingway changed his style several times in his life and this is just an example of a style that went astray.I enjoyed The old man and the sea which was written quite differenty . The fact that there was only one person involved made a difference . ",2
"I do n't think I have ever taken so long to read a book and still finished it . This was my first major Hemingway and so far from finding it direct and pithy as the author is reputed to be I thought it tedious and repetitive turgid in its inner monologues and astoundingly oldfashioned in its dialogues . And yet and yet . Hemingway who saw the Spanish Civil War from the inside as a reporter has a remarkable gift for describing places such as a guerilla camp in the high mountains capturing the undertones between people who do not really trust one another evoking the tension before a dangerous action then setting out the course of that action in simple concrete terms . My reading accelerated as it went on and in the end I could hardly put the book down.I turned to this after reading a much more recent book about that war Dave Boling'sGUERNICA . Despite the more approachable style of the later writer Hemingway clearly has the larger vision . Whereas Boling writes a sweeping family saga Hemingway confines himself to a threeday period in a single area . The hero Robert Jordan is an American instructor from a college in Montana fighting the fascists with the International Brigade . He is sent behind enemy lines to blow up a bridge spanning a mountain gorge . To do so he must recruit the aid of local guerrilla bands who may or may not trust him or each other . From this simple assignment the scope spans out in thought and flashback to a much wider canvas not so much of place and time but of moral vision . For Hemingway clearly antifascist but no cardcarrying red either is concerned at every turn with human dignity the liberty which makes this possible the love and hope which makes it worthwhile and the apparent impossibility of preserving these values in wartime . This is a novel of substance.Unfortunately neither Hemingway nor Boling avoids the temptation to romanticize the common people of another culture . Most of Hemingway 's guerrillas are twodimensional at best and rather difficult to tell apart . The exceptions are Pablo the oncefearless leader now turned cautious and his wife Pilar . But Maria the rapesurvivor with whom Robert falls in love or at least into bed is a male fantasy of eager compliance he even addresses her as little rabbit ! Worst of all is Hemingway 's extraordinary decision to render spoken Spanish by means of an exaggeratedly literal translation leading to lines such as And what thinkest thou of this of the bridge ? and the immortal postcoital question Didst not thou feel the earth move ? And his description of the act itself a breathless homage to James Joyce and Gertrude Stein may be a literary tourdeforce but in that simple context it is laughably overblown . Hemingway had a better connection than most to people 's souls and the movement of the earth if only he did not go to such lengths to prove it ! ",3
"This story is a classic . It details events that occurred during the Spanish civil war of the late 1930s when fascism was on the rise in Western Europe.In 1944 in my adolescent romanticism I had become immutably bonded to the characters and Ingrid Bergman after seeing the movie that had just come out.Now 70 years later and reading the details of the love affair I was to discover that I understood practically nothing of the historical significance in which the story takes place . The atmosphere of the guerrilla cave and escapades left a deep impression on me that was never to be forgotten.Should you read this novel I might suggest that seeing the movie first might place the characters most strongly in their rightful desperate and fateful surroundings as so skillfully described by the author . ",4
"What more is there to say about this masterpiece that has n't been covered in over 100 reviews here not to mention the shelves of critical essays and examinations since this book appeared in 1940 ? Precious little probably yet what a strange Great American Novel this is ! To begin with its set in Spain in the midst of an all but forgotten conflict the Spanish Civil War . Then there 's our hero a young university lecturer Robert Jordan linguist and fluent in Spanish French and probably German.Jordan is one of the most likable people in American literature in many ways the allAmerican hero . Yet he 's fighting for the communistsunder a Russian general with a guerilla terrorist ? group that seems distinctly low on ideals and high on banditry and brutality.Then there 's the novel 's philosophy which the title implicitly states which supports the notion of community and cooperation and the importance of individual sacrifice for the common good . Foreign and unAmerican indeed yet brilliantly handled even a Fascist Officer becomes someone we can sympathise with and is probably Robert Jordan 's last victim.A curious feature is the pervasive irony so absent from much current American writing and conversation . Its manifest in many episodes and provides much sly humour such as when Robert Jordan speaks of machine guns jamming or running out of ammunition but does so in English . When his Spanish comrades ask him what he 's talking about he simply replies just looking into the future in English.Hemingway 's main innovation is a simple yet brilliant Render the Spanish dialogue in English but make it a similiteral translation so for instance What 's your name ? becomes How are you called ? Its a little awkward for the first few pages then we adjust but never forget that Robert Jordan is speaking Spanish to Spanish speakers.Good novelists write books with strong main characters great ones make even the minor characters memorable . And so it is with this book from the uneducated yet thoughtful old man Anselmo to the half deaf leader of a neighboring guerilla band El Sordo.Finally in an era of upbeat feelings and the importance of positive thinking For Whom the Bell Tolls is an extraordinarily pessimistic and downbeat novelTruly an American classic maybe the strangest of them all . ",4
"For Whom the Bell Tolls was the first Hemingway I ever read . I was a high school kid in the early 1970s working on my campus newspaper newly graduated from Jack London but not yet ready for Jack Kerouac.To my young eyes it was a good action story Robert Jordan the passionate American teacher joins a band of armed gypsies in the Spanish Civil War . He believes one man can make a difference . The whole novel covers just 68 hours during which Jordan must find a way to blow up a key bridge behind enemy lines . In that short time Jordan also falls in love with Maria a beautiful Spanish woman who has been raped by enemy soldiers . The whole spectrum of literature was refracted through the prism of my youth Good guys and bad guys sex and blood life and death . For me just a boy the journey from abstraction to clarity was only just beginning.Rereading For Whom the Bell Tolls at 42 roughly the age Hemingway was when he published it I have lost my ability to see things clearly in black and white . My vision is blurred by irony as I note that two enemies the moral killer Anselmo and the sympathetic fascist Lieutenant Berrendo utter the very same prayer . For the first time I see that the book opens with Robert Jordan lying on the pineneedled floor of the forest and closes as he feels his heart pounding against the pine needle floor of the forest Jordan ends as he begins perhaps having never really moved . I certainly could never have seen at 16 how dying well might be more consequential than living well . And somehow the light has changed in the past 26 years so that I now truly understand how the earth can move.As a teen I missed another crucial element even though Vietnam was still a seeping wound . Three pivotal days in Jordan 's life force him to question his own role in a futile war . He wonders if dying for a political cause might be too wasteful but he ultimately believes that dying to save another individual is a man 's most heroic act.The book 's title is taken from John Donne 's celebrated poem No man is an Iland and therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls It tolls for thee . It was not about loneliness and aloneness as I once had thought but about the seamless fabric of all life What happens to one happens to all.I am not blind to Hemingway 's flaws . He was a good short writer and what was short was almost always better . Pilar 's tale on the mountainside has been widely acclaimed as the most powerful of Hemingway 's prose . Her story within a story is nothing less than a contemporary myth.For Whom the Bell Tolls has also been regarded as Hemingway 's capitulation to critics who barked that his innovative style was too lean and as a consciously commercial exercise for which Hollywood might and did pay handsomely . Robert Jordan in so many respects was a tragic mythical hero in the vein of Achilles Gawain and Samson . For Whom the Bell Tolls ranks as one of the great American war novels in a country that has always struggled with the concept of good and bad wars . ",4
"HEMINGWAY IS MY FAV ! I SUGGEST YOU READ THIS IF YOU WANT A GREAT LOVE STORY..OF COURSE HE IS THE MASTER ! ",4
"Hemingway is one of the best known authors worldwide and with good reason . As someone with limited knowledge of European history and a complete ignorance of the events of the Spanish Civil War this had me engrossed and wanting to learn more . It had me so engrossed that I nearly wanted to go join a rebel movement and dedicate myself to war a la Robert Jordan.This book has the vital ingredients of sex and war and mixed together with Hemingway 's unbelievably creative writing style makes for one of the best works of fiction of all time . ",4
"Fifty years after my first reading I enjoyed it all over again this time near the scene of the action in Spain . Flawed in some ways as critics have noted it remains a powerful and arresting story . ",4
"One of my favorite books of all time . Granted there are some dry parts in the book but other parts well make up for it . ",4
"Can a whole life be lived in just four days ? This is the question that haunts Robert Jordan throughout FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS . Leaving behind his respectable life as an American college Spanishlanguage teacher he has become an accomplished guerrilla fighter and explosives expert fighting for the antifascists in the Spanish Civil War . Can he really find a new family fall head over heels in love and strike a blow that will further the rebel cause and lay his own personal ghosts to rest in just four days ? Well he 's going to give it one almighty try because when that fourth day arrives he is sure there will be no tomorrow.And so Robert Jordan ordered to blow up a bridge to enable the antigovernment forces ' latest attack attaches himself to a ragtag band of hardened guerrilla fighters currently hiding out in a cave in the hills near the bridge . In the cave he finds a band of unstable hotheaded misfits a band of unique and beguiling individuals a band that is sheltering a frightened little rabbit . But they are very few and the task Robert Jordan has brought them is very great . Can he possibly lead them to a glorious unlikely success or will he lead them to their doom and his own ? The story is haunted by the concept that Whether one has fear of it or not one 's death is difficult to accept . This is the scene that Hemingway sets and being Hemingway all he does is tell us These are the people this is what happened to them this is what they did this is what they said . And being Hemingway that is more than enough.Hemingway 's famously economical style can sometimes border on the cold clinical and flat but in this book he loosens the reins just slightly with very effective results . The moments of fastpaced action are often very dialoguedriven in quieter moments there are little oases of slightly more wordy descriptions of surroundings or feelings and sensual moments are a tumbling bundle of words and images that hardly even constitute sentences at all but are intensely moving . Overall the style of FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS is still characteristically Hemingway matteroffact pointed with not a word out of place . The dialogue is still jarringly clipped but that 's what makes it so stirring . There are moments of maddening excessive repetition but they are like hammer strokes driving the point home . Once again Hemingway does everything that should make a story fall flat but instead it soars . Do n't try this at home folks . This is something beyond the powers of mere mortals this is something found only in the realms of genius.Characterization and character development are particularly strong in FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS . In his usual way Hemingway introduces us to all the characters of the story in situ withholding any hint of their histories and making us earn the right to know them better by waiting and dwelling with them for some considerable time first . It seems that we are meant to get to know these characters in the present so as to deserve the privilege of knowing anything about their pasts and so as to understand that the present is really all that matters . But by the time we have got to know them that well all we can think about is their futures Who will survive the dangerous mission before them ? Robert Jordan is the typical Hemingway leading man mysterious enigmatic physically and emotionally strong but not invulnerable . Initially appearing to be made of stone it is the little rabbit Maria a victim of unspeakable war crimes who has found refuge with the guerrilla band who steadily chips away at Roberto 's facade to reveal the human being beneath . And this human being is all too mortal and all too susceptible to the dread of leading his new Spanish family to their doom . And the enigma remains Why is this American fighting in somebody else 's war ? Meanwhile the cast of peripheral characters in FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS is as vibrant and varied as the contents of a paella . In the wait for zero hour these characters are revealed one by one Anselmo the gentlehearted old man Fernando the pedant Agustin the fervent revolutionary Rafael the unreliable gypsy . And then there is Pilar a character who could never be accused of being peripheral . Mercurial certainly but never peripheral she is surely one of Hemingway 's strongest female characters by turns worldly zealous kind cruel loyal bitter and as tough as old boots . When it comes to the crunch we are right there with these very real characters as they march with their heads held high and their hearts in their boots into the impossibly dangerous situation devised for them by the powersthatbe the powersthatshoulddamnwellknowbetter.FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS is reminiscent of Hemingway 's other war story A FAREWELL TO ARMS in the attention it gives to the way in which war turns men into monsters . Pilar 's recounting of the first day of the revolution in her own village plus the underlying threat of insurrection within the guerrilla band 's own ranks provide chilling evidence of the evil that lurks in the souls of ordinary men and women . In the memorable words of Agustin War is a bitchery . Robert and Anselmo in particular struggle throughout with the Machiavellian concept of killing for the sake of their higher cause . Is this really all there is to it or do they take some kind of perverse pleasure in the taking of a life ? And can they be honest enough at least with themselves to admit it ? These themes of personal guilt and responsibility lead inevitably to contemplation of who the enemy really is . At one point Robert remarks that one side of a revolution usually garners greater attention than the other . Hemingway makes it abundantly clear however that FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS is not going to perpetuate this injustice and great pains are taken to emphasize that the enemy are people too . From the personal effects of an enemy scout to a peek through the window at the occupants of an enemy guardpost to actual narrative space given to the enemy in a bloody skirmish the reader is never allowed to forget that both sides of the conflict share a common humanity . When all is said and done Robert reflects on that part of himself that is the core of all soldiers no matter who they fight for In him too was despair from the sorrow that soldiers turn to hatred in order that they may continue to be soldiers.And when faced with the horrors of war the minds of soldiers often turn to religion another central theme of FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS . Robert and his newly Communist comrades are supposed to have renounced religion altogether and there are many jokes about their now exLord and Savior . Anselmo however is quietly wracked with uncertainty over renouncing the beliefs of a lifetime and in a particularly moving scene he wishes for the opportunity to undertake some form of religious penance once the war is over for the lives he has taken . And when the battle for the bridge is finally waged both sides turn to prayer as their last resort.FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS is a magnificent rendition of the hypocrisy farce and senselessness of war . This in itself makes the book a superb thoughtprovoking soulsearching classic . But it is also arguably Hemingway 's greatest love story . Robert and Maria 's story is so much more than just a whirlwind romance it is an exquisitely tender desperately passionate joining of two lost but beautiful souls . As ridiculous as it may sound Robert and Maria will make you believe that true love can blossom and burn in the space of just four days . This pair would do anything for each other . They want to live a full life together but they wo n't hesitate to die for one another either . Will they have to ? I do not make this statement lightly FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS is the most perfectly paced novel I have ever read . In the beginning the story chugs along sedately giving you time to meet and greet your fellow passengers and accustom yourself to your surroundings . In the last third of the book you start to hear the whistle blowing and feel the story picking up speed . In the last fifty or so pages you 're holding on to this runaway train for dear life . By the end you 've gone past the edge of your seat and are kneeling on the floor praying for these characters and especially these two lovers to survive . I wish that I were going to live a long time instead of going to die today because I have learned much about life in these four days more I think than in all the other time . This is Robert Jordan 's musing when the battle is finally joined and it made me realize that I had also learned much about life from the four days the lifetime contained in the pages of this unprepossessing riveting novel . The thing that makes me so passionate about books is that when they 're really really good they make my eyes sparkle and my heart beat faster . FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS held me mesmerized and took my breath away . It is one of those books I will never forget . It is a masterpiece . ",4
"this book aims to please those readers of Spanish novels with American themes . Give this a read . ",3
"For Whom the Bell Tolls by Ernest Hemingway is the story of Robert Jordan a young man who is caught up making explosives for the rebels in the Spanish Civil War . He 's contemplative and slowtoact the opposite of the explosives he is in charge of detonating.We meet up with Jordan once he is tasked to blow up a bridge a bridge that is pivotal to the war effort . He goes into the mountains to meet with a band of rebels who are to help him destroy the bridge and attack the base on the other side of the bridge . Jordan meets and falls in love with a young Spanish woman Maria and the story reaches it 's climax when he is forced to make a tough decision and blow the bridge without the proper equipment.Like many of Hemingway 's novels For Whom the Bell Tolls was quite wordy . There was a lot of talk and not a lot of action . Honestly I preferred Hemingway 's The Old Man and the Sea and A Farewell to Arms . The novel was interesting . I 'm glad I powered through it as it is considered a classic but not my favorite of his work . Excellent writer but I 've seen better work out of him.Sarah ",2
"This book gathers momentum slowly but I guarantee that if you stick with it to the end you will be very well rewarded . I enjoyed this book for insight into history as well as military tactics . It 's almost like you are behind enemy lines eavesdropping on what is happening . But the last 40 to 50 pages swiftly gathers momentum both in action and emotional impact . But intertwined is this heartwrenching love story at least at the end it 's heartwrenching . I 've read four of Hemingway 's books but this one ranks easily at the top . There is so much emotion and character in this book the stuff that makes us human and heroic and that makes Hemingway so great . The last 40 pages or so builds so much emotion suspense and excitement you can not put it downthe mission climaxes the love story climaxes what a ride ! ! ! ",4
"Ernest Hemingway For Whom The Bell TollsFor one who wants to read the book that has it all I recommend Ernest Hemingway 's For Whom The Bell Tolls . Friendship strife security terror love war good evil this book has them all . It is the story of Robert Jordan a sympathizer of the Republicans in the Spanish Civil War whose duty is to lead a band of guerrillas in blowing up a bridge as part of a Republican offensive . Along the way Jordan will learn the revolting pasts of several of the guerrillas fall in love with one of them and spend quite some time meditating on truths he was once sure he knew.No sooner has Jordan met with the guerrillas than he discovers that one of them fearful of being hunted down by the fascist forces stands against him and threatens to take the entire group away . This first taste of tension is mirrored several times over in Hemingway 's gripping novel as Jordan 's quest to destroy his bridge turns into a contemplation of whether his cause is truly worthy or not.Much of what Jordan sees recommends the latter . Jordan 's guerrilla partners are not simple adornments to his crusade they all have livid pasts and he finds much to learn from them . Even as they curse and spit at the fascists several of these guerrillas communicate through their stories arguments against the futility and cruelty of the war they have willfully taken up . Others too young to realize what they have gotten into create commentaries on war through their nave brashness.Additionally the humanity of the guerrillas makes Jordan question the commands from his isolated detached superiors . In time Jordan forms strong bonds with his friends and discovers that the thought of sending them into harm 's way is not a simple abstraction . This is further complicated by a girl Jordan meets and falls in love with and Jordan 's own questions about the worthiness of his orders.Like Robert Jordan we as readers of For Whom The Bell Tolls are invited to meditate on many of the thoughts that so bother him . What need a person do to live a full life ? How important is it to stay true to principles even when fighting in vain ? What are the limits of brutality ? These are a few of the questions Hemingway grapples with in his book . The answers are so well bound with the narrative that often one hardly notices a metaphysical discussion has occurred but those who give the text a second look will find a philosophical subtext as gripping as the plot line.As for the story Hemingway creates out of his assortment of characters a narrative of breathtaking beauty . For Whom The Bell Tolls has the power to move one to tears wet hands with sweat and force page after page of devoted reading . Hemingway 's language is not the most beautiful but in lieu of poetics his writing has the next best thing crisp clarity.Perhaps the best thing to say about For Whom The Bell Tolls is that at nearly 500 pages which glide by in a snap scarcely one has been wasted . It is a war novel laced with the drama of a Henry James piece and a drama lacerated with the carnage of war . In other words this fine book of Hemingway 's manages to transcend two genres and end up at some unknown point in between but certainly above both . ",4
"It 's hard to write a a concise review for this wonderful novel that would begin to capture the emotion and vitality within its pages . Read the Amazon description for a plot summary but do n't be fooled into thinking it 's a black and white story about the Spanish Revolution . Hemingway has an amazing way of capturing the sheer humanity of the whole undertaking . The Reds the fascists the anarchists and the uncommitted are all examined and ultimately shown as being human beings first and political creatures second.At the same time it is the ultimate war novel and love story . Hemingway delves into Jordan 's perspective of the characters and is vivid in his description of the Spanish countryside while also maintaining a near stream of consciousness of intelligent thoughts . The simultaneous vitality and fatalism of the characters is amazing . Truly a wonderful book . ",4
"Hemingway has a way of getting into our heads . The characters are plain spoken almost Shakespearean at times with powerful philosophical paragraphs sprayed in . His interest in bullfighting is obvious if you have read any of his work and is not ignored here . Against the rules of writing he uses the Spanish tongue although irritating he gets away with it.Set in the mid 1930 's and centered around an American munitions expert fighting to help the cause of removing the Germans Italians and the rest of the fascist armies from out of Spain . He links up with a group of cave dwelling partisans outside of town . Much of the book is spent on his relationship with this group and him falling in love with a young girl whom he can never have.Some may object to the ending but I found it fitting I man 's gota ' do what I man 's gota ' doWish you wellScott ",3
"Having recently come back from Paris I went through a Hemingway phase starting with his memoirs of his Paris days then I stumbled on this book.The stumbling was a fortunate accident for this book is amazing . Hemingway 's short but powerful prose is in perfect form . I actually find Hemingway and Gabriel Garcia Marquez similar in their ability to capture a thought completely in one sentence even though their actual sentences are different.Hemingway perfectly captures poignant emotions and the sentence sparsity adds to the strength and description beautifully.I also agree with one of the other reviewers above in that my appreciation is probably helped by age . A lot of the emotions of loss doubt disillusion and love I only felt in my post high school years . It 's a good adventure story nonetheless but might lose its power for a youger audience . ",4
"Well I 'm embarrased to say that it took me until late in life to finally get around to reading this gem . And oh what a gem it is . Robert Jordan is one of those characters that just stays with you . I found myself a bit envious of his adventure at least for a while do n't want to give anything away . For me having never fought in a war the sense of romanticism mingled with the clear tragedy seemed a realistic picture of what it must be like.Ultimately I admire the sense of duty and honor so many of these characters display and I wonder how many people share that kind of personal commitment today . I like to think it 's still a high number certainly we see it our military men and women but I ca n't help but wonder.This book is a 5star read all the way around . Read it . You wo n't be sorry . ",4
"As inspired as I was after The Sun Also Rises I am even more crushed by this one . If you have any idea of writing something real someday steer well clear of For Whom the Bell Tolls . What a genius work of character development and atmosphere . ",4
"I hate not finishing a book that I 've started but in the case of this incredibly long drawnout and boring novel I had no qualms whatsoever . The characters are as unsympathetic as they come with the 2D Maria who has probably never entertained a thought in her head she is so stupid and empty except to please Robert Jordan who spends hundreds and hundreds of pages just thinking random thoughts and walking from place to place . I thought that Anna Karenina was long and drawn out but even at 800 + pages that book was less drawn out than this wprthless piece . It was completely unnecessary for it to be so longone of Hemingway 's short stories about an old man on a bridge during the spanish civil war at less than 3 pages is ten times more movign and poignant than this book . And it does n't even really paint the Spanish civil war all that wellif you really want a glimpse of what it was like go rent and watch the classic movie La lengua de los mariposas or Butterfly in English which will give you a better idea and much mroe enjoyment at the same time . This book also is n't really that actionpacked at all for a war bookI 'd say fighting and battle takes up maybe twofifths fo the book at the most it 's mostly just talking long stories long ten page thought streams of RJ or just walking from place to place describing things with some of the longest runon sentences I 've ever seen anyone who tells you that Hemingway 's style was just short and simple sentences is full of it in regard to this book.In short this book is not worth your timeread one of Hemingway 's short stories if you must but not this long drawn out boring yarn . ",0
"On the back cover of this paperback it 's noted that Hemingway is known for his terse sentences . Did the person writing this blurb read the book ? Probably not . In parts of this novel the author writes as if possessed by James Joyce in a stream of consciousness style with long sentences . That 's OK or would be if they added to the novel but sorry they do n't . The author is also repetitive repeating the same point over and over in some cases . But there is no reason in terms of the plot in writing the same point over and over in this book except to in my opinion stretch this novella out into almost 500 pages . The first couple and the last couple of chapters are essentially where the action is . One has to ask why this story is so revered and I think the answer is because the author was so admired . The press especially heroworshiped Hemingway and perhaps this explains the toomuch praise for this work . Still not a bad book and when it 's good it 's very good . ",2
"Therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls It tolls for theeexactly what was Donne conveying to us ? The fortuitous nature of existence or the unbiased treatment of fate or the luring equivocation of individuality ? In the pitifully short three days no better be accurate two and a half days during a crucial advance for the republic forces in Spain Hemingway leads us toward the bullpen behind which hid a chimera that is to hunt us all our lives with the echo of Donne 's famed line.Hemingway draws every little details together as a pounding fistbeating recursive chimes into the readers ' ears . And with the slower more passionate journey into Jordan 's memory and future in a way we become enthralled as well to the question of choice . How will he choose ? Jordan a formal Spanish professor in the University of Montana chooses to foresake the capitalist luxury of America and pursues the life as a republic dynamiter in Spain.There is no question of individuality only a question of choice a choice between masses and not identities . All this remains intact until Robert 's own vision is no longer able to see between simple black and white in the Spanish mountains where he prepares to blow up a bridge during a republic offensive . His comrades are not all communists nor are his enemies all fascists these men die not for an ideal but for an idea . And as he grows to love the rough Spaniards around him shrewd yet cowardly Pablo thoughtful hunter Ansemlo strong and foreseeing Pilar and most of all a young woman ravaged many times by fascist soldiers Jordan starts to doubt the path he chooses . And between life and death ideal and reality he waivers.Pablo is a sharp thread that seams between characters and draws Jordan on with questions he appears cowardly despite his heroic records as a guerilla leader and his own dawdling conviction towards the idea of republic pricks Jordan 's own sense of duty . Especially with more and more emotional involvement dependency on Maria 's love Jordan is wondering whether enough killing is enough killing for a vague concept . Pablo 's seemingly growing discontent as a part of a mass is complemented by his woman Pilar 's undying strength . She reads palms and smells death and it is through her strong faith in the union of freedom seekers that the guerrilla group stays together . But exactly for whom the bell tolls ? For the Spaniards who shed blood among themselves with visible strings from Moscow ? Yes warfare befalls all no one is missed by the silent blow although some can smell its scent and others shun its path . A dangerous sadness identifies Pablo while an optimistic cheerfulness characterizes Pilar why are they essentially the same lot then ? Because Hemingway shows us through the interaction of specter of differences a single vibration enlivens every frequency on the scale . Robert Jordan is a mere node not knowing which direction to lean towards especially as he is starting to doubt the vibration.America has n't had her share of good wars but what happens in one war is reflected in the next or is n't it ? If one strong man 's mentality comes tumbling down because the buttress is n't strong enough why should n't the next one fumble as well ? It tolls for thee and there are a million thee out there blindly believing they are the only thee . They hear the same ringing although each believes he is able to distinguish a unique frequency and they die their deaths as mere statistics . Thus it is actually an oxymoron Hemingway presents through Robert Jordan 's developing anxieties he feels tricked into believing the impact he himself can make in the war as a part of a hovering mass instead he recovers pieces of individuality when he is physically and emotionally removed from the same mass . So at the beginning he lays on one stretch of pine forest floor and hears this bell chime calling him to begin he joins the guerilla band at the end he is wounded and is left behind to lay on the same stretch of pine forest floor and he hears this bell chime calling him to end . The integration and disintegration mark his journey from blindness to sight.Two and a half days who ever lives out their entire existence in such a short period ? Jordan does and he sees so far into the pattern of living that he does regret the ultimate choice he makes not as a soldier or a leftist but as a man redeemed through the moral bath of contemplation . ",4
"I picked this book up a day after reading Catch22 perhaps the most drawn out most asinine ridiculous over rated book ever written and For Whom the Bell Tolls is the second.I found this novel silly a glorified and tamed sex novel one might find at the grocery store . The love making scenes were ridiculous what was this thou oh oh thou oh oh oh garbage ? It took me a week to get through this book which from reading other bad reviews is pretty quick work of this novel.This novel was n't all bad which is more than I can say for Catch Number 2 that was not an error . The three action packed scenes The murder of the fascists at Pablo 's town Sordo 's battle and the blowing of the bridge were actually pretty entertaining . These were the fastest chapters of the book though they were the longest . I did a little research on Hemingway and found that he had a minimalist style and liked verbs more than adjectives and did n't like flowery language I feel the man could have used an adjective or two to liven up this dull dead book.Oh and watch out for that long drawn out paragraph that goes something like this Now all now and now I say now all we have is now and then now this is now and now i what we have that 's pretty close to what he wrote and it continues with the nows Then there was the DIRECT translation of Spanish . What was that all about ? Less bad ? That 's menos mal which means literally less bad but in English it sounds STUPID . It 's different when you read this book and are fluent in Spanish you see why the English is not less bad but all bad . And what of the Thees and thous ? And Nays ? I get it they were speaking archaic Spanish one sentence at the beginning telling us that would have been sufficient now I have to feel like I 'm reading a 15th century novel . The whole Robert Jordan thing was also annoying just call him Bob or Robert or Jordan . Lastly what 's with te glorification of communists ? The book is supposed to be about the death of idealism but I saw none of that . ",1
"You understand you have to like Hemingway . This work embodied his distinct style of writing the spare yet eloquent manner that is known as his . Hemingway 's ability to saddle every word with meaning and emotion is at it 's ripest in this work where he writes a war story that encompasses the entire spectrum of the human experience form love to hate spite to sacrifice . While the Spanish Civil War included tens of thousands Hemingway writes of a handful of people who represent the whole of the country . Heroes do not always win in Hemingway 's world but in their defeat they do win . The bravery and ultimate sacrifice of the protagonist captures that bitter fact of life . This novel has a meaning and lesson that can only be appreciated and understood by those who have read it . It would be a loss not to . ",4
"I very much enjoyed this book it is not one of my favorites but I am very happy I read it . I recommend it for people who enjoy Ernest Hemingway as a writer but if you are new to him I would do a little bit of research on this book before deciding to read it . ",3
"This is another masterly work from Hemingway . When he gets it right he gets it OH so right . You have more tight evocative language that conjure up the landscapes the characters live in and wonderful characterisation so that you fully engage and sympathise with them . This is a great look at the Spanish civil war from the guerrillas point of view with the assistance of an American explosives expert . It has romance chivalry betrayal adventure and the rougher side of human nature . What more could you want from one novel ? If you like Hemingway then this is another great novel and if you 're new to him this may not be the best starting place but you 'll still not be disappointed.Feel free to check out my blog which can be found on my profile page . ",4
"I had to write this review because of the review someone else wroteThis person said it was about Hemingway 's support for anticommunists and young americans going over to Spain during the civil war to fight the communistsHe must not have read the book . The main character of the book went to fight against the FASCISTS not the communists . He hated fascism and wanted to stop the fascist regime from taking Spain . Fighting on his side were many communists or Spanish backed by communist nations such as the spanish generals trained by the communist Russian nation so how on earth this reviewer could think it was against communism if he read the book is beyond me . Also this book is about much more it explores moral issues and covers themes from love to the truth of war . Hemingway really makes you see the tragedy and pointlessness of war . ",4
"I 've read two other previous books by Hemingway . Feel free to read those reviews as well . In his best piece Old Man and the Sea Hemingway describes a man 's courage and conviction in a miniepic struggle between and elderly man and the greatest catch of his life a giant marlin . In another book The Sun also Rises Hemingway paints a very rich and colorful portraitt of Spain and Pamplona that I could not sum up in a few sentences . Both books create a vivid picture almost unequaled in literature.This book however does nothing of the sort . Excluding a side story that concerns the massacre of a town of locals it is repetitive boring and provides little insight . The majority of this 450 page book takes place in one cave and provides very little substance . Personally no picture was painted for me no human character was exposed and no real lasting meaning came from this book.I grew tired of the cave tired of the speculation about killing the Guerilla leader Pablo and bored of the lightweight unreal romance . An editor could have spliced away pages 200400 and the book would have not missed a beat.If you 're a casual reader like myself stick with other Hemingway works . ",1
"This is one of my favorite books of all time and I thought I would listen to it on a long trip so I purchased the audio version through Audible.com.For Whom the Bell Tolls Publisher Simon & Schuster Audio Unabridged editionturned out to be a great investment and listening to the book refreshed my memories and gave me the feeling of experiencing the book again for the first time.I wo n't spend much time reviewing the book itself because nearly everything which can be said about it has already been said . I can only add my voice to those praising the wonderful cadence of Hemingway 's dialogue and the haunting descriptive narrative as he works through how the politics of war have changed all his characters reducing them to little more than animals living in caves sometimes predators and sometimes prey . Hemingway was sympathetic in real life to the Republican cause in the Spanish Civil War against the Fascists but he does not completely spare them in his portrayal of the levels of brutality men stoop to in a war pitting citizens of a single country against each other . Hemingway also spares little sympathy on the ignorance and stupidity of some in command of the Republican Army nor the callousness of those on the elite periphery as preparations are made for the novel 's pivotal moment.The narrative in the audio version is by Campbell Scott . He is a very soft spoken performer who took some getting used to . I imagined this novel would be read in a more forceful way more like I imagined Hemingway himself might have read it but Mr. Scott 's voice is very measured and while heroic virile male characters like the republican guerrilla fighters characters like Pablo and El Sordo may have been slightly underplayed his careful narration allowed him to give depth to female characters especially Pilar.I have listened to many audiobooks and one of the most annoying things can be male narrators trying to do female characters and completely blowing it . A failure on this level can take you right out of the story and completely ruin the experience of listening to the book . Mr. Scott avoids this and is able to voice the female characters without it sounding like a parody . This is incredibly important with this book because the female characters are prominent and very strong . Another problem some narrators encounter is accents again a failure here ruins the book . Mr. Scott never overplays any of the characters giving each one of them credible distinctions without ever descending in stereotype.When I had finished listening to the book I realized that Mr. Scott by achieving this balance with supporting characters had given nearly perfect voice to the measured methodical and logical voice of American Robert Jordon the main character . Since much of the book is introspective reflection and dialogue by Jordon Mr. Scott 's narrative style was for me the perfect fit.All in all I highly recommend both this book and this audio version . If you are not a reader or do n't see yourself ever being able to attack this long book try the audio version . You will be carried away to the treacherous gray stony mountains north of Madrid by an author who knew not only how to live but also how to die . ",4
"This book is definitely a desertisland book for me . I love all of Hemingway 's extensive body of works but this novel is by far my favourite . The story is about a young American man who is fighting voluntarily against Franco 's Fascist forces in Spain . This man ends up leading a band of guerillas in what turns out to be a totally useless military foray . The novel itself only encompasses seventytwo hours but in that time Robert Jordan our American hero loses his comrades in battle falls in love and is badly wounded . Hemingway 's writing is masterful in this classic ! This book even more than A Farewell to Arms outlines Hemingway 's thoughts on the futility of war and the effect that war has on one single man . Even though the novel encompasses such a short time Hemingway makes use of flashbacks to bring the reader into the series of events that led to this particular point in Jordan 's life . Again Hemingway makes use of personal experiences for this novel . He was actually involved himself in this Spanish civil war . His writing style is spare although incredibly vivid . This is a truly wonderful book that I feel encompasses all the best of Ernest Hemingway . ",4
"FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS takes place in the space of three days and Hemingway narrates nearly every moment in 471 pages . When reading large sections in one sitting I really felt the weight of the experience settle on me . The novel also begins to feel increasingly existentialist as the absurdity of the structures of war and death play out for the characters involved . During marathon reading sessions on three different days I came to see this as a literary real time adventure as Hemingway details almost every moment in the characters ' lives.The novel starts out with the protagonist Robert Jordan lying on the forest floor . Jordan an American is in Spain fighting on the side of the Republicans in 1937 during the Spanish Civil War . Jordan is apparently a code hero a protagonist of Hemingway 's who lives according to a code of behavior . He is a Spanish teacher from Montana who loves Spain and is fighting carrying out explosives missions against the Fascists who have a vast war machine.At the beginning of the novel Robert Jordan is teamed up with a band of guerrilla fighters in the mountains near a bridge he must blow as part of a Republican offensive . Anselmo an old man who knows the land well helps Jordan scout the bridge . Other members of the band include Pablo a formerly great fighter we are told who has now gone bad . He cares primarily for his horses . His woman Pilar is a leader of the band and she narrates on the first full day that Jordan is with them how the Republicans rose up against the Fascists in her town . The story is brutal and demonstrates the atrocities committed by the Republicans in the war as they bludgeon the town 's Fascists to save bullets . Others in the group include Agustin Eladio Andres Fernando and Rafael a Gypsy . And Maria . Maria is a young woman who was the victim of atrocities in her town . She was rescued by this band of Republicans and now lives with them in the mountains . She is the love interest.I love Hemingway 's voice and this novel continues to demonstrate his ability with that spare journalistic style to narrate loneliness like no one else . The seemingly simplistic style evokes a real pathos and is especially suited to writing of war and the human spiritual conflicts such situations impose upon its participants . The reader is explosed to the morality issues of war how characters feel about killing what is its necessity when is it moral when is it wrong etc.The story becomes existential very Kafkaesque as well when one character 's interactions with command are relayed by Hemingway . I laughed allowed at the absudities but was struck by the dire consequences of these ridiculous desicions and actions . These situations show the war machine 's indifference to individual human life and the ridiculous scenarios that arise from various leaders ' individual conceits and worries.I think that the book 's time frame of only three days makes a strong point about war and the people one serves with . For the reader the band in the mountains are basically the only people Robert Jordan knows though there are brief flashbacks . One can see how those who fight together can bond so deeply in a short period of time as practically every moment is laden with portent and their fate as a group turns on such small things as an evening snowfall.I unequivocally recommend this book . ",4
"5 Stars is not enough for this classic book . You will not put it down . I think it ' his best work.Steve Tuers ",4
"My third Hemingway book . I had been intimidated by it for a while mostly by reputation tackling his smaller less dense works instead . Finally I picked it up and never regretted it . It took me a while to get through the middle section but once I got through that I could n't put it down . While on vacation in Chicago I even took it with me and read while at a bar with friends . Every book I 've read since pales in comparison . ",4
"This is my third experience with Hemingway and while I fully expect to complete the entire Hemingway collection I ca n't quite find it within myself to award five stars to any of the works I 've read to date.In each of the novels The Sun Also Rises and Farewell to Arms being the other two I 've been entranced at times by the hauntingly beautiful writing however there have been periods where the story drags where the almost stream of consciousness style grinds the action to a halt . Not long enough to kill the story but enough to impact the overall reading experience.This novel is set in Spain during the Spanish Civil War the idealogical precursor to the FascistCommunist clash soon to come on the Eastern Front of World War II . The story primarily involves American Spanish professor and converted Republican partisan Robert Jordan and the 72 hours he spends with an antifascist partisan force in the hours preceding a Republican offensive.The characters crafted by Hemingway are fascinating most specifically the partisan leaders Pablo and Pilar . The interaction between the rebels and with Jordan are spellbinding . The character of Pilar is especially haunting and her story of the execution of the fascists aka prominent citizens in her small Spanish village is some of the best and most captivating writing I 've ever read.Unfortunately in my opinion this 470 page novel is about 100 pages too long as it is interspersed with periods of inaction punctuated by stream of consciousness meanderings which admittedly many may find enjoyable.Some may find the style of language irritating Thee Thou Thy mother etc . but I found this to be a minor issue . More problematic to me is what I can only guess is the censorship either self censorship in light of the times or editorial censorship whereby all instances of profanity or coarse language is omitted and replaced by bizarre alternatives . For example these beauties from the mouth of Pablo I obscenity in the milk of all and Go and obscenity thyself . I find it hard to believe that Hemingway actually wrote this and if not or even if he did these bizarre omissions can not be rectified.Despite these minor complaints this is an extremely educational piece of work both from the standpoint of literature and for the insight it provides for an extremely important and interesting period of world history . Highly recommended . ",3
"EXCERPTED FROM GOD 'S COUNTRY BY STEVEN TRAVERSFor Whom the Bell Tolls is based upon Hemingway ? s support for the antiCommunists fighting in the Spanish Civil War of the 1930s . He and many other Americans went over to fight in the war which some say was a dress rehearsal for World War II . It did not materialize into the kind of idealized Spanish government that many had sacrificed for . The fascistic Francisco Franco ended up ruling an isolationist Spain until the 1970s . While the nation is now Democratic the Franco regime was the final event that took Spain from greatness to mediocrity . Hemingway also wrote a stageplay about the Spanish Civil War called The Fifth Column.STEVEN TRAVERSAUTHOR OF BARRY BONDS BASEBALL 'S SUPERMAN & ltB > ",4
"EXCERPTED FROM GOD 'S COUNTRY BY STEVEN TRAVERSFor Whom the Bell Tolls is based upon Hemingway ? s support for the antiCommunists fighting in the Spanish Civil War of the 1930s . He and many other Americans went over to fight in the war which some say was a dress rehearsal for World War II . It did not materialize into the kind of idealized Spanish government that many had sacrificed for . The fascistic Francisco Franco ended up ruling an isolationist Spain until the 1970s . While the nation is now Democratic the Franco regime was the final event that took Spain from greatness to mediocrity . Hemingway also wrote a stageplay about the Spanish Civil War called The Fifth Column . ",4
"First of all I recognize that this is a classic novel by one of the most highly regarded writers of the twentieth century . Hemingway was very good sycophants made him sublime . To criticize this work and not rhapsodize over its poetic beauty and its insightful symbolism would seem to be almost in bad taste . But I will do so anyway.Overall I would have to say that the story is good but not great Robert Jordan is an American fighting for the communists in the Spanish civil war . He is an instructor in Spanish at a Montana college who has taken a sabbatical to secretly come to Spain . He wants to fight to liberate the workingman . Jordan is sent by his Russian controller to join a band of guerrillas behind Fascist lines . His mission is to blow up a bridge this is timed to precisely coincide with a Republican communist offensive . Anselmo an old man who is the most reliable guerilla takes him to the band of rebels . The band is led by Pablo an uncouth peasant who has gone from fervent murderous radical to a man who only wants to survive . Pilar Pablo 's woman is the unifying force in Pablo 's band . There are assorted other rebels and Maria a refugee who has been raped by the fascists . Maria and Robert Jordan fall in love immediately and are soon fornicating like rabbits . The bridge is attacked and destroyed but this leads to the death of Anselmo and to Robert Jordan being mortally wounded . He orders Maria to go on without him and he bids her to escape and enjoy life thereby he will live through her.The book does give a good picture of the issues of the Spanish civil war . The fascists are portrayed as decent people backed by Nazis and Italian fascists . The Republicans are controlled by Russians as are puppets on a string . Hemingway makes a point to say that the top Republicans all speak Russian having been trained as revolutionaries in the Soviet Union . The individual peasants Jordan fights with are mostly portrayed as decent people with a few savages thrown in for good measure.I had several problems with the book . I understand that Hemingway uses the archaic thee and thou to indicate that the dialogue is being spoken in Spanish . He omits this when Jordan is speaking in English or thinking to himself . This takes some getting used to but is tolerable . It is the awkward translation of Spanish obscene phrases that is done in a silly and annoying way . The phrase I obscenity in the milk of your father appears dozens of times . No one speaks this way . It is patently unnatural and just about ruined the book for me . I understand that this is a literal translation of the Spanish oath me cago en la leche I understand and do n't care . It would have been better to leave the obscenity implied but unsaid without resorting to this awkward device.There is a painfully awkward page where Robert Jordan discovers that Pablo has stolen his detonators . On page 368 he says Oh muck my grandfather and muck this whole treacherous mucking country and every mucking Spaniard in it on either side and to hell forever and so forth in lieu of the word that is an acronym for for unlawful carnal knowledge about two dozen times . I understand that in 1940 that word could not appear in print but did it have to be replaced by something so witless . Funny how that word still ca n't appear in Amazon.com book reviews in 2002.There is another especially awkward scene that sticks in my mind . Hemingway describes Robert Jordan 's feelings at having reached orgasm with Maria on page 379 Oh now now now the only now and above all now and there is no other now but thou now and now is thy prophet . Now and forever now . Come now now for there is no now but now . Yes now . and so on for half a page . Give me a break ! There is also the problem of some of the poorly drawn and unbelievable characters . Robert Jordan is too perfect to be true is he Jesus in disguise ? . He goes from a mild mannered rural college instructor to a stone killer and demolitions expert in a matter of months . He does n't have any personal stake in the Spanish conflict but quickly becomes a cool yet eager killer in the service of the Soviet side . His inner dialogue tells us that this is because he has always wanted to do something for downtrodden workers of the world . It is also in part to prove that he is as much a man as his U.S. Civil war hero grandfather . The relationship with Maria is unbelievable to the point of being absurd . Jordan is a thirtysomething who has never been in love . He and Maria who is 19 fall in love at first sight . They immediately decide to have sex they plan to get married and live together happily ever after . He is fully aware that he has been handed a suicide mission and is completely unconcerned . How did he live for this long if his own safety is of no interest to him ? Much has been made of the fact that this book illustrated the concepts in the Donne poem No Man is an Iland . Well then why do we need nearly five hundred pages of this book when that poem says it so well in a few lines . ",3
"Hemingway really did excellent work when he wrote this novel based on his experiences covering the war in Spain . I especially liked his description of his main characters female lover . It gives a good idea of what the guerrillas did behind Fran cos lines . I really enjoyed the ugly women who had in her life many young handsome swashbuckling lovers who were matadors . This reminds me of advice I have given to women many times in my life essentially if you are a women and you like a guy pursue him it 's really a buyers market for women when it comes to men in that respect . ",4
"Then check out the passage when he falls to nothing . This is the best war book along with Tim Obriens The Things They Carried which is way different and about a different war but equally powerful that I have read . It exhibits everything and gets to the point of life and its lack of purpose if you can not find something worth dying for and that that purpose is not the real purpose at all when it comes down to dying . This is not a dark book nor is it selfpitying as I imagine a less able writer would make it so soon . It is not even depressing it is exciting and touching and wellwritten . And there 's winesacks as well . the bell tolls for thou he quotes . This book gets to the connectedness and loneliness of people . ",4
"For Whom The Bell Tolls is a tour de force in more ways then one and ends being Hemingway 's best work because of how accesible it is to a general audience.The first time I read this book I was 17 and I could n't put it down which is a stark contrast to some of Hemingway 's other works . Works like The Sun Also Rises and Farewell To Arms I think require a bit more maturity to appreciate but FWTBT is a good pick for a more advanced high school student . The novel is more plot driven than Hemingway 's other works and thus a bit more exciting and readable for the general public . Hemingway 's story of an American demolition expert caught up in a mission amidst the backdrop of the Spanish Civil War is both compelling suspensefull thoughtfull brutal and heartwarming all at once.Like many classic this book excels in most elements that are required for an amazing piece of literature . The charactization is superb . Robert Jordan and the supporting cast are fully fleshed out three dimensional characters . Of course the book is written in the classic Hemingway style . His own style of prose will put you into story as you live this three day adventure with the main characters . Finally there are many layers and themes to this book as it has something to say about war man personal honor and the usual Hemingway themes.This was Hemingway 's second to last novel and the last of his more well known works . Having read most of his books I think Hemingway really hit his peak here and fine tuned his craft . A truly amazing piece of work FWTBT should really be read by everyone . If you only read one Hemingway book in your life this should be it . You do n't need to be well read to appreciate this.Bottom Line There is a reason why certain books are deemed classics . FWTBT is the perfect example . ",4
"I decided to read this because of Hemingway 's stature as one of the few American authors who has received the Nobel Prize in Literature . I read 'The Old Man and the Sea ' many many years ago it was really my inspiration and beginning to what has become a lifelong love of books and reading and I felt I needed to read more to find out what all the fuss was about . Well this story may have been gripping in 1935 or 1940 or whenever it was written but I am struggling to finish it . There is of course the ubiquitous double standard for men and women that was the accepted way of life in its time . I understand all that but its like reading about things that happened on another planet . There 's the addressing of each other as 'thee ' and 'thou ' which I 'm guessing has something to do with translating Spanish to English but as the book is in English I have to wonder why this is even addressed . Also why are all the characters referred to by their first names 'Pilar ' 'Maria ' etc . but our hero the protagonist is always identified by both first and last names ? It was annoying at first but I 've become used to it at this point I guess . I 've suspect that this story is NOT going to have a happy ending but I do n't know for sure yet . I do n't think Maria is going to get her chance at a lifetime of happiness which would undoubtedly consist of making babies and stew for R.J . ",2
"I enjoy the character development and vivid descriptions of his narrative . I 'm glad after all these years to finally finding out why Hemingway is ranked so highly as a writer . ",4
"Easton Press has numerous variations of this title . The 1968 copyrighted special edition was part of the Limited Edition and I believe Famous Editions . I consider it to be the best of the available editions as the rest are rather generic covers designed for an Ernest Hemingway series.This edition contains illustrations and an introduction by Sinclair Lewis.This was my introduction to Hemingway and perhaps not the best book to be weaned on . I can understand why kids hate him . His writing is real time . Characters are developed at a snails pace through conversation and deeds . Hemingway seems to write about every waking hour of the main character Robert Jordon . Jordon is an American helping the Spanish in their fight against fascism . The Abraham Lincoln Brigade was a famous group of American communists and various left wingers who went to the aid of the Spanish people . Their experience proved invaluable as they were recruited to act as spies for the OSS during WWII . After WWII for their dedicated service they were barred from the CIA because they were communists.This story likewise looks at patriotism communism democracy and fascism seen at the microcosm level of Robert Jordan . It is a tale about love and loyalty as Robert meets Maria and plans to make her an honest woman when it is all over . The beginning of the book opens with plans to blow up a strategic bridge which happens about 400 pages later . The action is slow . Hemingway writing shifts between first and third person . He has sentences without verbs . The book is lengthy and needs an editor by today 's standards.I do n't know if this is how Hemingway wrote the book but in this edition it uses the phrase curse word when a curse word should be used . It got annoying after a while . Meanwhile this edition includes an illustration of a topless woman.This is a fine looking EP edition to put on your shelf . I do n't expect you to read it . ",4
"Hemmingway transcribes his expat experiences in the Spanish American war into a gripping story of the futility of combat . The main characters hide in the hills struggling between loyalty to their antifascist cause and the scars caused by the attrocities they 've experienced.For whom the bell tolls as we all know It tolls for thee ! This summarizes the story . To Hemmingway war is futile . We all lose . Agree or disagree with the morality the story captures Hemmingway 's ability to lay emotions bare with strong minimalist prose and dialogure . ",4
"Ernest Hemingway wrote another great adventure story with FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS . His style is very vivid and reading the book is like being on the scene of the Spanish Civil War itself . Prior to reading FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS I had read all his short stories while taking a short story course in college then THE OLD MAN AND THE SEA . The short stories vary in style except that they are also written in short sentences just as Hemingway preferred . THE OLD MAN AND THE SEA tends to be boring but FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS is fascinating throughout . I just wish I had the time to read more of Hemingway 's novels just to see what they are like . ",4
"What can I say ? He is so scant of description but so full of story . I read his books over and over about his war stories . They almost are n't war stories but preludes to battle where the battle is almost inconsequencial . You are already a conrade of the character . You just lost a friend . ",4
"I first read this about 40 years ago . I just repurchased it . This is a classic novel . ",4
"He can write effectively and knowledgeably about war bullfighting and hunting but not women . This has been a common criticism against Hemingway over the years . Many critics have found his depiction of women hollow and superficial . His women seem to exist only in the context of the male hero . They are given no distinctive voice of their own and are almost always dealt a tragic fate . This can not be said of Pilar from For Whom The Bell Tolls . She is one of Hemingway 's strongest female characters and has often been characterized as the real leader of the guerrilla band . Pablo may hold that title at the beginning of the novel but as the novel progresses Pilar 's authoritative stature becomes more and more evident . Pilar is a rather contradicting figure and this is a testament to Hemingway 's ability to fictionally construct her well . On the one hand existing in maledominated culture she is fully domesticated expert in her knowledge on how to perform traditional womanly duties . On the other hand she is not entirely complaisant or silent willed . She will not hesitate to speak her mind nor will she hesitate to take up arms and fight with the men . She also has enough military sense to lead a group of male soldiers . ",4
"For Whom the Bell Tolls is a great book with large themes war love devotion to duty and the clash between modern rational values and more traditional ones . At a higher level it is about connections between people indeed the book opens with the following quotation from John Donne . . . any mans death diminishes me because I am involved in Mankinde And therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls it tolls for thee.Hemingway takes us inside a guerilla band during the Spanish Civil War mostly through the eyes of Robert Jordan an American professorcumdemolitions expert . Jordan is a Communist at least he is strongly drawn to Communism who has come to Spain to fight fascism . He has character and a sense of duty . Since from our vantage point at the beginning of the 21st century it seems that not many people do this gives the book a kind of long ago and far away feel . Readers in 1940 when the book was published no doubt experienced it in a more immediate way.This book includes many memorable secondary characters among them Pilar the wise leader of the band of partisans Pablo her drunken amoral but capable husband and Maria the love interest in the story.Like every Hemingway novel that I 've read this one is well written . Hemingway uses the archaic English thou for the Spanish tu and translates literally from Spanish to English to better convey an impression of Spanish dialogue to English readers . These devices are initially distracting but are actually very successful at taking the reader inside the minds of the Spanishspeaking characters in this book.This is a distinguished work and an exciting one . It deserves its acclaim . ",4
"Robert Jordan is a young American fighting against the fascists in the Spanish Civil War . He is sent into the mountains to make contact with a small band of guerillas to blow a bridge in support of an offensive.Hemingway 's tremendous strength of drawing characters that the reader comes to know and care about is on full display in For Whom the Bell Tolls . Jordan falls in love with the young woman Maria who is seeking refuge from a world that has robbed her of her childhood innocence . There is Pablo the former leader who has seen the futility of the war and can not face the day without dulling his mind with wine . There is Pilar Pablo 's mate who longs for her youth but has now assumed the role of leader and mother to the small group of fighters.Robert Jordan and the reader come to know the dynamics of the group quite well . Jordan wrestles with the necessity of endangering the group of people for the cause . This book depicts the contrast of war 's brutality with the camaraderie of friends.For Whom the Bell Tolls is considered a classic for a reason . This is a book that has aged well and will stick with the reader for a long time . ",4
"If you read only one perhaps this should be it . I am not a trained student of Hemingway or of literature for that matter . I know what I like and I can recognize junk . You do n't have to be an expert or even fully understand the author and his times to appreciate what a superb novel this is . As I was reading it I could realize why Hemingway was so honored even during his lifetime . The story is basic though the setting is in unsual one for most American readers who today probably would guess that the Spanish Civil War has something to do with General Lee and the Alamo . The main character Robert Jordan is an American leftist attached to a guerilla unit in the Spanish mountains . Like Hemingway Jordan is intelligent deliberate controlled passionate and motivated by his ideals . Through him the reader encounters the chaos of this amateur war that is being played by foreign professionals . The entire book which is of some size revolves around one mission and take places over only a couple of days . In addition to a political statement and a philosophical autobiography this is a superb war novel . The book build up the mission to destroy a bridge so much that by the closing pages of the book as the mission is unfolding my heart was literally racing and I could not put the book down . I wo n't spoil it but this one ends like so may of EH 's books and like EH thought life itself would end . . . .Great book do n't miss this classic . ",4
"It was Hemingway it was a classic it was a satisfying read . Enough said . Not as moving as the Old Man and the Sea . ",3
"I think Hemingway has the fame he does because of his life and not his works . This is my favorite Hemingway novel admittedly I have n't read all of them and I give it four stars because it deals with Spain and I like the plot . Even so Hemingway thought he spoke Spanish which he decidedly did not . Early in the novel while discussing the procurement of horses someone says something to which another character says Less bad . I do n't know if that 's Hemingway a translator taking this from a Spanish edition or what but menos mal does not translate to less bad . It 's all right better yet or whatever phrase makes sense . Less bad is just wrong.I agree with those who question Hemingway 's putative brilliance . I think his life is far more interesting than any of his works that I 've read . Still I enjoyed the plot of this novel . ",3
"in for whom the bell tolls hemingway looks at war from the individuals perspective . his army is a rag tag group of guerrilla fighters not the army . the time and setting is the spanish civil war . a general understanding of that war is helpful . the characters include mostly local insurgents and one american mercenary . the horrors of war are portrayed on both sides with neither having the higher moral ground.it is also a study of courage in the face of potential death . this is developed not only through the underlying theme of war but the stories of some of the characters earlier lives which include bull fighting and the running of the bulls.the one drawback to the book is the stilted language used in the dialog of the novel including the refusal to use obscenities.a book well worth the read ",3
"Hemingway expertly begins this book with John Donne 's poem No Man is an Island The main theme of this story to me is centered around our connection to others . No matter if they are right down the street or across the Atlantic Ocean from us . As Donne said I paraphrase weakly Whenever someone in mankind is hurting it hurts me because I am part of mankind and mankind is part of me.This book has several interesting elements1 . Robert Jordan 's strong sense of duty.Why does a Spanish professor from Montana decide to leave his obiviously comfortable life to fight with the anti facist guerillas in a far away country ? What compels him to give up himself so completely to fight for a people that he seemingly has no connections to ? Where does Robert 's commitment to duty come from ? These questions are addressed and answered expertly by Hemingway in the thought process of Robert conversations he has and lived out in his very relationships.The book is dominated by Robert 's thinking out of his actions in the face of what he has to do . I really enjoyed this facet of the story . I think it adds to the length of the novel but it is definitely worth reading.2 . The demise of Pablo 's sense of duty and passion.When we meet Pablo in this story he is a man on the downside of his effectiveness . He no longer has convicitons . He no longer has a will to accoplish his goals . Pablo 's lack of determination plays directly against Robert 's and Pablo 's wife Pilar . It is interesting to look at Pablo the old leader of the rebel band and how he is losing his influence over these people . His pride even causes him at times to hurt the anti facist cause which he once felt so strongly about . Robert and Pilar are both on fire for the cause and it consumes them . Pablo has lost all his fire for the cause and is now apparently useless . Pablo does experience some redemption in the end3 . The blossoming relationship between Robert and Maria . Love in the face of impending doom.I 'm not usually a big romance guy at least in the books I read . But the love story between Robert and Maria is beautiful.It grows out of a most impossible situation Robert the foreign freedom fighter finds Maria the ravaged former war prisoner . She does not necessarily look beautiful on the outside but Robert loves her anyway . He loves who she is and what she becomes to him.Interesting internal discussions happen for Robert about her . I love the one that talks about how he has to in essence live a whole life with Maria in 3 days . All because he is unsure of whether he will live to have a life with her after the war . These two people really loved each other and would do anything for each other.4 . The ultimate sacrifice Self sacrifice.I do n't want to get into the details of the conclusion of the story . Hate to spoil a good read . But the theme of self sacrifice comes through loud and clear . To me this is the theme of life . We make a real difference when we give up on our sense of self and make an impact on others . Whether they are people we are closely and intimatly related to or people we have never seen before . Robert Jordan gets it he puts others first and gives up all he has.Read this book it is a rewarding experience . It is a war novel but you will notice I rarely mentioned the war . It is so much more than a war novel . I loved it I think you will too . ",3
"Set during the Spanish American War of the 1930s For Whom the Bell Tolls is a novel about an American sent on a mission to help guerrilla fighters blow up a bridge.There . That 's the basic plot . It sounds like something out a an action movie does n't it . To stop there however would be doing the novel and the author a grave disservice.When it gets down to it For Whom the Bell Tolls is about death and how to face it . The men on this secret bridgeexploding mission are going to die and they know it . They will not be coming back from this mission . Each of them will be facing death one way or another and they each have to deal with it individually . The idea of suicide is even approached from a soldier 's point of view the question is raised is it preferable to kill oneself than to be captured by the enemy ? For Whom the Bell Tolls also touches upon racism and politics though not strictly from an American point of view.Within this tale violence is to be found in spades but this is not a simple action story . This is true literature told in the best writing Hemingway ever did yes I admit that 's arguable but it 's my opinion believe what you want.As a writer is there anything not to learn from Hemingway ? The man knew how to write tense scenes and deal with weighty subject matters all while using as few words as possible and most of those short words . No other author in my experience has quite been able to do that.As an aside I 'll admit that every time I read a Hemingway novel I always hate it . Until I reach the very last page . Then suddenly I love it . Not sure why that is but it 's always been my reaction . ",3
"Poor Papa has become such a caricature it is easy to forget that he was the source and inspiration for countless writers . On rereading For Whom the Bell Tolls I was reminded of what thrilled me long ago when one could speak of serious fiction without ironic intent.ExoticismAll of Hemingway 's work has an exotic locale with an unusual American driving the narrative . In this novel Robert Jordan a professor from Montana is a demolition operative with a group of guerillas in the Spanish Civil War . He lives in the mountains eats rabbit stew with partisans is fluent in the dialect makes love with a senorita in his sleeping bag destroys bridges with steely skill and faces death with aplomb.StyleHemingway 's direct and lucid style is in full form . It sounds great when read aloud . Nobody did it better.In this novel much of the dialogue is memorable because of the literal translation from peasant Spanish . No English speakers would carry on as they do and the arcane cant with its earthy directness permeates the whole novel.In 1940 Hemingway was unable to use 4letter curses . He had to substitute the word obscenity or nameless yielding something like I obscenity in the milk of your nameless mother . Well it 's not very shocking but I 'm happy old Hem was stuck with that translation . Had the Bell been fouled with English vulgarities it would have come off today as quite common and the exoticism would be considerably dampened.WomenMaria is Robert Jordan 's love but she is unremarkable as a character . In those times a warrior 's love interest had to be airheaded and adulatory . However Pilar the woman who commands the guerillas is an unforgettable person . She is too fat and ugly to bed but her skill as a storyteller and judge of people are superb.PoliticsIn politics Hemingway was propeasant and he fought facists throughout Europe . In his latter years he complained about J. Edgar Hoover tailing him and perhaps it was not delusory . Americans who assisted the Republicans they were the goodguys in that time and place were branded as Commies and were forever on the FBI troublemaker list . It was courageous of Hemingway to make a collaborator like Robert Jordan his hero.Buddhist TouchesRobert Jordan is no monk but he does live by some prime Buddhist principles . He goes on for some length about living in the now there may be no tomorrow . Just before his death he explains to the Maria that wherever she goes so will he be there . A mystical touch that can not heal their parting.And SoRead this novel to be transported to a time and place beyond the memory of all but the very old . Human nature is displayed in the extreme both base and uplifting . It is one of the last great war novels that told its story without a blink.Hemingway 's appeal is not very complicated . Growing up I knew some outdoorsmen and war heros but they tended to be illiterate or mute . I knew some good writers but they tended to be bookish dweebs . Ern could negotiate both camps and he was the first writer to seize my attention . I think he 'll be charming readers for a long time . ",4
"This rich novel explores many fundamental human themes including love duty perseverance and sacrifice . Like all great literary works it transcends the era in which it was written and speaks to readers for generations after the author has passed away . This is a great novel by a great writer and I ca n't understand how anyone would rate this less than five stars . The novel spans only a few days and contains the story of Robert Jordan a volunteer in Spain who is sent on mission to blow up a key bridge with a band of guerillas behind the Nationalist lines as part of a Republican offensive . The novel is primarily a dialogue between Jordan and the members of the guerilla band . The tension builds to the final confrontation at the bridge . There are several extensive sidebars not directly relevant to the main plot including the discussion of the fate of Pilar 's village and the last stand of El Sordo 's guerilla band . These are probably the best written most detailed sections of the novel . Some would say that these distract from the main story but I argue that they add richness and depth to the characters and to the events of the main plot.EH writes with a direct readable prose . His characters are complex and multidimensional and often conflicted . One may argue as to whether this is his best work or not or whether he was a better writer of short stories or novels . What does it matter ? This is one of the greatest war novels indeed one of the greatest novels ever written . In terms of richness and depth only Zola 's La Debacle is comparable to this work.One thing in particular struck me about this story that make it an unconventional war novel . Most war novels either take the philosophic position of patriotic glory for the homeland or war as a pointless exercise in destruction . Robert Jordan has a unique perspective in this book in that he is an outsider fighting for a cause not for a country or a government . He is n't driven by patriotism or love of country . He is n't fighting for the national army of his homeland . This gives him a unique perspective to question why he is fighting and what he is fighting for particularly after he falls in love . ",4
"I fell hard for Ernest Hemingway in high school.I read A Farewell to Arms my sophomore year and fell in love with Hemingway and great literature . I read it over ever few years just because I ca n't get enough of the love story and Hemingway 's gift for writing . Oh he had a gift . I 've also read The Sun Also Rises multiple timessometimes because it was assigned and sometimes for fun . I 've long heard that For Whom the Bell Tolls is supposed to be Hemingway 's masterpiece and it 's been on my toread list for some time . I have to admit that I have little to no desire to read about an old man in the sea . Sorry.In For Whom the Bell Tolls Robert Jordan is an American supporting the Republic in the Spanish Civil War . Jordan has been given the assignment to work with a small band of guerrillas to blow up a bridge at the moment of the Republic offensive . Over the three days he spends with the guerrillas the reader gets into his head and experiences the physical and psychological experience of being in war.I sat in my car waiting to do a family photo session this morning and finished this fabulous novel . It is powerful and emotional and just confirmed my belief that Hemingway is one of the greatest writers . I 'm gushing I know . He 's not for everyone . I 've pushed my husband to read both A Farewell to Arms and The Sun Also Rises and he 's not a fan . My husband thinks Hemingway is just an angry drunk . He might be right but I 'm going to encourage him to give Hemingway another chance and read For Whom the Bell Tolls . I think he will be glad he did . ",4
"This novel is considered by most to be one of the great novels of the 20th Century and its author to be one of the greatest authors of all time there are undoubtedly reasons for this . Yet Hemmingway is also considered to be a love him or hate him type . I tend toward the former though he is n't one of my personal favorites.The plot of this novel is relatively straightforward . American Robert Jordan a member of the International Brigades fighting with the Republicans against the Fascists during the Spanish Civil War is given the task of blowing up a bridge to prevent the Fascists from bringing up reinforcements to repel a Republican offensive . But while the plot is uncomplicated the depth and breadth of Hemmingway 's story telling are not . There are layers and layers of emotion passion and personal pain . You are transported to the mountains of Spain with Jordan and a band of Spanish guerilla fighters . The characters are so incredibly real that you feel as though you could find their names in a history book . For those who have never read Hemmingway I 'd say give it a try . ",3
"If you like Old Man and the Sea you 'll love this . It is similar in feeling and has a Spanish flair . I seldom remember lines from books but I 've memorized many from this novel . The opening quote from John Donne is as deep as they come . It sets the tone for the book but is better understood if you immediately reread the quote right after finishing the book . You really truly understand then what is meant when he says Do not send to know for whom the bell tolls.it tolls for thee . ",4
"It is a fascinating tale of Robert Roberto Jordon and his paisonos caught up in the Spanish Civil War . The story covers only three days of the war yet it takes us on Robert Jordon 's life voyage . It is conveyed by the brilliant soliloquy a tug of war of conscience duty honor and death itself . Who among us has not had such dialogue ? It has everything romance camaraderie bravery cowardice and above all sacrifice . Jordon an American who is addressed as Ingles by his comrades is the band 's leader who is commissioned by the rebellion general to blow up a bridge.His team includes some unforgettable characters ever penned the ruthless yet pragmatic Pablo his incredibly humane wife Pilar Augustine brave soldier like a brother to Robert and lovely innocent Maria . Roberto Jordon and Maria fall in love the moment they meet and once Pilar reads his palm the denouement is never in doubt.The scene where Pablo is in charge with a gun hustling out town 's fascists who are holed up in the church to be taken care of by the avenging mob outside is reminiscent of krystalnacht enactment superbly portrayed by G & uumlnter Grass in his classic Nazi drama Tin Drum.An all time classic ",4
"For Whom the Bell Tolls is a perfect example of what makes Ernest Hemmingway one of if not the preeminent writers of the first half of the 20th Century.Although his machismo style does not appeal to everyone especially the feminists who find his portrayals of women to be degrading and unrealistic this is a perfect example of his style and of the cruel realities of the world of his time.Hemingway 's signature terse writing style lends itself perfectly to the telling of the story of the loyalist guerillas during the Spanish Civil War . His writing style perfectly captures the way of thinking one would have while in such a situation.Although undoubtedly the love story between Robert Jordan and Maria is weak yet it does n't detract from the overall beauty and poignancy of the story for first and foremost this is a war story.Hemingway does what he does best in For Whom The Bell Tolls which is to capture a slice of life from a bygone era . Although set 70 years ago Hemingway 's story has as much meaning in a modern setting as they did when they were written . It is a true classic in every sense of the word . ",4
"The bell tolls for lost ideals noble futility the transient moments of tenderness in the ugliness of civil war . This is one of the greatest American writers at the height of his powers by turns lyrical & tough showing the worst & best of us idealism & cynicism courage & cowardice loyalty & treachery skill & incompetence . ",4
"I have an original copy of For Whom the Bell Tolls that my grandfather gave me . For years I read the poem at the beginning of the book which has the same title as the book itself but had never read the content . It is amazing that after years of reflecting on that poem that reading the actual content of this classic meant so much more . As I am sure was Hemingway 's intention you can literraly reflect on that poem back through every single chapter in the book and each time the poem will have a new meaning for the reader . This is a true sign in my opinion of a great author . I need to read this novel again to pick up on some of the hidden inuendos and nuances I might have missed the first time but that too will be time wellspent.This is a phenomenal book by a bona fide talented classic author . It is worth reading reflecting upon and reading again . ",4
"Wrote this review for the Livermore Public Library 2013 Summer Reading ProgramBlow up a bridge . That is the mission assigned to Robert Jordan.Blow it up at at the perfect time for it to be blown up and that time is not set he must know when to do it and he has to figure that out himself.This is how the story of Robert Jordan an American Expatriot opens in the midst of the backdrop of the Spanish Civil War . Hemingway does a great job setting the scene describing just enough detail to put you there . He also manages to give you a nice taste of Spanish culture and it 's various attitudes.The Spaniard 's love of seafood is featured in Pilar 's description of Valencia Spain is second only to Japan in seafood consumption.What is very interesting is the dialogue . Hemingway goes to great lengths to accurately translate the way Spaniards speak to each other with formality . There are a lot of Thee 's and Thys and the structure of the speech is a little difficult to get used to.It took me a while to understand why I kept reading things like I have indescribable and unprintable and I have forgotten the obscenity password . Indescribable unprintable and obscenity probably have more to do with the censors of 1940 than anything else . Still it does a nice job of conveying the notion that an obscenity in Spanish carries a lot more weight than does one in English.This novel is high adventure and Robert Jordan his political affiliations notwithstanding is a hero 's hero . If you decide to look into reading a book that sits among the list of classics here 's one that truly deserves the title ! ",4
"I am not usually a literature guy preferring nonfiction and popular novels but I read this because it is a classic and I wanted to experience Hemingway beyond my high school reading of The Old Man and the Sea . and honestly because while dating my wife she revealed this as one of her favorite books and that aroused my curiosity.This is a story that deals with the larger questions of life and essential truths and man 's place in the world or at least in a challenging situation . So that qualifies as literature according to my wife 's definition when I asked her what made literature literature a while ago.Protagonist Robert Jordan is an American volunteering with the Republicans fighting Franco 's Fascists in the Spanish Civil War . A demolitions expert Jordan 's task is to blow a key bridge as part of a larger Republican attack . While waiting with a small band of guerilla 's he meets and falls in love with Maria a victim of the war and symbol for all innocents caught in aggression 's path.Thus we have a literary work that addresses commitment to cause love and the battle between individual wants and the needs of and obligations to a larger cause.Hemmingway has a way with description and his prose is very well done and evocative particularly one passage I liked when he described holding Maria 's hand with ripening grain in an untrammeled field . His story is slow however for my tastes and the descriptions and inner conversations of Jordan are much more prevalent than scenes where anything called action could be said to be occurring though the action scenes are pretty good when they do occur . I imagine the ending will be unsatisfying to some but for literary minded folks be the source of discussion as to how the final scene may have played out and what it meant in terms of tying the story 's themes together . ",3
"For Whom the Bell Tolls is one of Hemingway 's masterpieces.The novel is set during the Spanish Civil War and at the center of it is Robert Jordan an American who has joined the international brigades supporting the democratic Spanish government against the Fascist insurgency led by Fransisco Franco . The focus is onJordan and the loyalist guerillas he is with and their mission of blowing up a key bridge which would enable the loyalists to trap a fascist army The other part of the novel focuses on Jordans relationships with the guerillas particularily a young woman named Maria . Jordan and Maria fall in love and it is a compelling story but Jordans relationships with the guerilla leader Pablo and his wife Pilar as well as the other loyalists are also compelling . The novel has an air of tragedy about it for the fascists destroy a large loyalist army before the bridge can be demolished and we know that the Fascists end up winning the war . Jordan is one of Hemingways most compelling heroes and he carries the novels . You see Spain through his eyes and Hemingway makes you believe you are in Spain in late 1938 . This is a great novel and I recommend it highly ",4
"Yes I said historical novel because even in H. 's day history passed by very quickly . It 's this novel A Farewell to Arms and The Old Man and the Sea that for me are the real crown jewels of Hemingway 's output . Even if you 're just interested in the historical aspect of the The Spanish Civil War you 'll get much out of this work . There is n't much more I can add that has n't already been said . ",4
"Perhaps the bell tolled for Ernest and his bid for literary greatness with the passing of this book . Did Hemingway exhaust all his courage strength and virility in this work ? FWTBT is leagues away from The Sun Also Rises taking themes from A Farewell to Arms to another level . To the extent that Hemingway wanted to reach the apex of truth in storytelling and to find a suitable language to express it this book is a great achievement . Hemingway chooses Spanish modulation of English words to power his narrative from the start the reader senses the honor strength and spirit every sentence spoken carries with it.Ernest is not just translating from Spanish to wow us the reader feels that when he wrote this book Spanish was the only language that could express his happiness his sadness his pleasure and suffering . Maybe Spanish contained the words and meanings Hemingway and those involved in the war for Spanish liberty sought desperately every night by the campfire words of fear and love.To me this book was Hemingway 's most significant attempt at articulating his life philosophy . It is ominous in the hero 's struggles with his personal and family history of duty resignation and death inability to hope or believe or believe that happiness can last . You might argue that El Sordo 's last stand is followed by Hemingway 's personal literary last stand against fascism fear and life 's various illusions . This is Hemingway 's last battle . Thereafter he is honorably discharged to a life of fishing and beautiful memoirs . ",3
"For many years I wanted to read it again after read it when I was teenagerHaving it on my Kindle was niceReading it with more mature eyes give it additional perspectivegreat book ",4
"Do n't go to Rome without Unless you have a private guide . This book made my visits to the Forum Vatican Coliseum Museums and numerous public fountains and sculptures 100x more enjoyable by adding a much deeper layer of understanding . Wonderful . ",4
"I used this book extensively when we lived in Rome in the late 1970s . It is for the person who has some time to wander around Rome not necessarily hitting the major tourist sites . I 'm replacing my copy before my next visit the old one has literally fallen apart with use . ",4
"We purchased this book after reading reviews that made it sound like it had the most indepth coverage of Rome even though we knew it would n't be good for carrying around with us as a guide . Unfortunately after a week in Rome we decided this book was fairly worthless . If it provided deep history on the sites we saw so we could review what we had seen in the evenings I 'd be thrilled . Unfortunately the book comes with maps printed so small it 's hard to read them even after you 've seen the things they portray in person . And the guide has only a tiny amount of history and background on things mostly it provides inane comments like to the left of XYZ you 'll see ABC which a guide like the Eyewitness Guide does more clearly with pictures . Not to mention its descriptions say things like from the entrance you can see without acknowledging that there are 6 separate entrances to the site or clarifying which one it 's referring to . It also provides distinctly uninsightful history saying things like name was the person who gave real meaning to the abbreviation S.P.Q.R but without actually telling you what SPQR stands for or how the person gave it meaning . Perhaps the book is a decent refresher for people who already know Rome 's history but do n't expect any insight into things you do n't already know . And it 's definitely not a guide to carry with youthe maps are tiny and illegible with 3point type and the information too dense to find things quicklyit 's laid out and reads like a 400 page novel . ",1
"Thus book remains a great achievement of travel writing head and shoulders about other walking travel guides . The walks are thoughtfully designed to comprehensively cover the city Georgina Masson 's writing is cultured individual and excellent and the book is chock full of interesting background detail to bring the city alive . Rome is a unique and fascinating place and she definitely gets it ! Wore out one copy of this book earlier edition purchased in '78 and am now working on the second unfortunately much heavier edition also not the current one.Not a book for the shortstay or casual visitor who just wants to hit the top sites but if you want to do some in depth exploration a tremendous resource definitely a read ahead resource . Buy this book while you can its gone out of print a couple of times so far ! ",4
"This is the time of year that Rome starts getting gussied up for Easter . The Spanish Steps will become a sea of azaleas and the various stational churches and basilicas will get themselves all decked out in finery and flowers for their special feast days e.g . San Lorenzo in Lucina awash in roses and orchids on Friday of the 3rd week in Lent . If you are fortunate enough to be planning a trip to Roma by all means avail yourself of The Companion Guide to Rome by Georgina Masson . It 's in several editions but I prefer the earlier ones without the updates by Mr. Fort . My current favorite is a 1966 edition . This book is in a class all it 's own in the mass of publications about the city of Rome . It is probably not a book to drag around all day as you tramp the streets of the Eternal City but then why not it does n't weigh much more than a water bottle . But it is certainly a book to have in your hotel room to read about the neighborhood you are about to visit or the one you visited the day before . Ms Masson gives lots of details about museums churches and architecture but it is as much poeticliterature as it is a guide book she is one with her city she lived there for many years and wants us to feel that along with her . For me she succeeds admirably ! Earlier this year when I was longing to be in Rome but could n't be I picked up the Companion Guide then read each chapter with great care and observation as Ms Masson walked me through the tangled streets and lively piazzas in and out of churches and museums and to favorite little escapes unknown to most people but waiting to be discovered guided by the adventerous creative spirit of Georgina . Highly reccommended . ",4
"This book is extremely interesting wellwritten and detailed . A good one to have in the hotel room and read at the end of the day especially if you have someone to read some of the passages to it is such good writing preparing for the next day 's sightseeing . However it is too heavy and detailed to carry around with you and refer to during the day unless you and your partner are willing to share the toting and one carries this book and the other carries everything else ! ",3
"I bought A Companion Guide to Rome by Masson based on 5star recommendations from Amazon and for me it was not a worthwhile purchase . The authors it has been revised several times offer infinite detail and historical tid bits but it actually offers little that was n't already in the Green Guide and it is too heavy and too much reading in my opinion to do on site while walking around . It was a nice reference but I should have looked for it in the library and just borrowed it . ",2
"I love having this book out for guests to look through and even myself to look through again and again ! Jane Goodall has done and continues to do marvelous work for Apes this books helps you realize it ! ",4
"I have learned more about why humans are the way they are in this book then in my first 55 years on this Earth . ",4
"This book takes you back to when Jane Goodall first started studying the chimpanzees at Gombe . She describes the early struggles to start the research and her experiences trying to get close enough to them to be able to observe their behavior and get to know them.The most fascinating part of reading this book is when she describes how the chimpanzees will gesture towards one another and those gestures are familiar to us as humans since we do something either similar or exactly the same . It makes the reader wonder if those gestures come from our distant common ancestor with the chimpanzees.In this day of modern conveniences it is reassuring to be reminded how a young woman and her mother at first ventured out into a strange country to study an animal that people knew very little about but that we are closely related to . It is thanks to her efforts that we have learned so much about them.I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in learning about the early years of Dr. Goodall 's work along with anyone who wants a closeup look at how chimpanzee society matches our own . I plan on reading the next book soon to find out what else has happened during her study . ",4
"We know so much about chimpanzee behavior now it 's hard to remember that in the 1950s we knew almost nothing . Louis Leakey identified one of his young assistants at Olduvai Gorge Jane Goodall as a promising scientist . With some advice but no training he sent her off to Gombe Stream Reserve in Tanzania.Goodall successful observations have taught us much about chimps and about primates in general . She earned her Ph.D despite not having engaged in any undergraduate studies established the Gombe Stream Research Center and became a leading scientist . Goodall documented chimps making and using tools eating and sharing meat and developing complex social relationships . All were novel observations violating the preconceptions of her predecessors . Goodall also gave the chimps names fed them bananas to keep them nearby and interacted with them in various ways practices that attracted controversy . Her photographer and later husband Hugo van Lawick helped introduce Goodall and the Gombe chimps to readers of National Geographic.In this book Goodall tells the stories of her chimps . Though there are some small pieces of her personal story included the focus remains on the chimps . She organizes the first half of the book chronologically around her study and the second half analytically around chimpanzee infancy youth adulthood and so on . She does not engage the sometimesnegative reaction that her work engendered often because this young woman 's observations forced expert men in the field to rethink longheld beliefs.The book is an engaging read though it probably has more detail than a general reader wants or needs . It 's also inspiring to see careful patient observation yield big scientific payoffs . ",3
"A wonderful book about a great woman who has done great things for the chimpanzees against all odds.The pictures are amazing . ",4
"Jane Goodall is the most talented woman whose love of animals brought her out to Africa . She observed so many things never witnessed by anyone before ! As she knows the calls of the chimpanzies I also would howl with my coyotes here in the desert . Her love of animals came quite early as did mine . This book is a great document of her many years with the animals in Gombe and her struggles there . Jane is an amazing woman and leader in protecting our wild places . ",4
"A Christmas gift for my grandson who has recently discovered Jane Goodall . Now he wants to go to Africa ! Love it . ",4
"I enjoy virtually following Ms Goodall into the forests and learning about the actions of the species she continues to study . How wonderfulfor her and usfor her to have learned so early in her life just which species she wanted to study . Her contributions to the study of primates in their natural habitat continues and her explanations of such are a joy to read . Highly recommended . ",4
"IN THE SHADOW OF MAN first published in 1971 remains one of the most extraordinary observations of chimpanzee behavior in the wild . Goodall begins with the story of how she arrived in Africa and her first days there but wisely switches the attention from herself to the endangered chimpanzees she studies . She not only recognizes individuals but learns their distinctive personalities describing in compelling detail the smallest of moments that illuminate who these great animals are . Unlike most scientists of the time Goodall documents emotions and complex political behavior the social hierarchy and parenting abilities the aggression and the bonds formed between chimps that can only be described as friendships . In eloquent prose Goodall tells the stories of these chimps most notably that of Flo and her family and will forever change the way you view chimpanzees.The book contains several black and white photographs of the chimps a real treat after getting to know these chimps in writing.If you have any interest at all in primates or in animals generally this is a musthave book . ",4
"Jane Goodall is a unique undividual whose work should be studied by those who think that the animal rights people do n't have a clue . Her efforts at gaining the trust of chimpanzee 's in their natural habitat have spauned a host of upandcomers who will continue to carry her work to the next level.Goodall distinguished herself by sitting in the bush on a daily basis until the local chimpanzee tribal members came close enough to make physical contact with her . That an English woman scientist would journey to Tanzania to engage in this type of research is unusual and certainly puts her at the top of her class.She follows the lives and behavior patterns of her subjects until her research sounds like a Michener novel with its generational emphasis and timelines of family heritage . Within this effort she follows each subsequent offspring through each of their successive cycles from birth and death.What is fascinating is how she describes personality differences the kind that come from hardcoded genetic diffences the same as we find in human individuals . The mating behavior sounds like something out of Cosmopolitan . The squabbles and fighting behavior could be that of any large Homo Sapien family . While Chimp 's are n't on the same intellectual level as humans they certainly come closer than any other species . Jane Goodall deserves every accolade she gets for bringing us a lens through which to observe another geneological line of a species that has developed from our common ancestors.Her work suggests that we should rethink our medical research toward more humane treatment of these animals whose behavior is too similar to ours to ignore . This is an excellent book . ",4
"Live the life of adventure and discovery through the eyes of Jane Goodall . Her love of nature animals and beauty is so evident throughout this book and you 'll sit fascinated with the antics personalities and life and existance of Jane and chimps alike . Jane has given them all names and you 'll forget at times they are animals and not human . Her daring and bravery as a young and adventurous girl are aweinspiring creating the wishful desire to have spent time in her shoes . Dropped in the middle of the jungle with no formal college training in animal behavior she was to observe the Chimps with a view uncluttered by facts . The first challenge was to gain the trust of the chimpanzees so that she could get close enough to live amongst them . With only a tent for protection the book is the result of her years of keeping journals while living in the jungle and learning how to fit into the society of the chimps . It 's beautiful funny and sad but most of all amazing . ",4
"Jane Goodall is such an ambassador for chimpanzees and all other life on this planet . Her hard work insights and drive are to be admired ! This book is her beginning and a must read for everyone . She is a truly amazing woman ! ",4
"Had to read this book for a class . It was a very good book especially if you 're interested in wildlife or just a good read . Jane Goodall really does a good job of making a research projectbook into a good read for everyone . She brings you right into the life of the chimps and has some amazing stories . I recommend this book to anyone . ",3
"This book was really informative and eye opening . I believe it will help us understand the hairy people called chimpanzees . ",4
"I read Jane Goodall 's In the Shadow of Man Houghton Mifflin 1971 years ago as research for a paleohistoric novel I was writing . I needed background on the great apes so I could show them acting appropriately in their primeval setting tens of thousands of years ago . While I did get a marvelous treatise from this book on their wild environ I also got my first introduction to the concept that they are almosthuman maybe even human cousins.But I digress . Back to Jane Goodall.This is the memoir that began her career that relays her start in the field of anthropology how she conducted her early studies and the price she paid personally and professionally for her perseverance . She had no formal background in primatology or fieldwork when she began this study . She entered Tanzania with an open mind a patient attitude and an interest in exploring the adventures of chimpanzees in the wild . From there she invented everything else that would allow her to investigate these fascinating primates . In the book she shares every step with readershow she followed the chimps until they finally accepted her presence without fleeing how she learned to identify each animal and in that way track their lives how she learned to understand their verbal and body language how she learned to be a better mother by watching Flo 's parenting skills.At the time she wrote this book chimpanzees were not considered humanstill are n't . Goodall approached her fieldwork expecting to see them fail the tests of humanness things like using tools caring for their families working as a group planning their actions . Each hurdle she put in front of them they lept across until her work destroyed all the rules about what made you and I human . She did for chimpanzees what Dian Fosse did for the gorillas and Birute Galdikas did for orangutans she humanized them.By the time I finished this book I realized that chimpanzees have a good and fulfilling life . They have adapted their lives to suit their environment . They lack man 's wanderlust restricting themselves to smaller and smaller parts of Africa every year but by Jane Goodall 's account they enjoy their lives.Can we say as much for ourselves ? ",4
"The pleasure that Ms. Goodall had placed and received in sharing her life with chimpanzees is conveyed effortlessly in this book and touches you quite easily . I started reading this book not being to sure about what I was doing since to know about the habits of these primates is not exactly among my list of favorite topics . So I just started browsing and before I knew it sixty or eighty pages had gone by as well as my possibilities of getting up early in the morning.The author will guide your through the complex social structures in which chimpanzees live to the very detailed and amazing details of their everyday life . For example that they would eat gladly a human baby if given the chance . But more important she makes you care for their lives not as a consequence of a higher scientific purpose but simply because the more that we relate to nature the more we are embraced in its blessings . ",4
"I am going to see Jane Goodall 's lecture next month so I wanted to read a few of her most wellknown titles before I saw her . In The Shadow of Man was the first book that I read in my Goodall Challenge . I loved this book . And I gained even more respect for Jane after reading this book . She 's brilliant she 's a great writer and she makes you really see chimpanzees as individuals who really are 99 % of us.Read my full review and join the Goodall Challenge ! here ",4
"Almost everyone has heard of Jane Goodall and her work with the chimpanzees . However the stories of the chimpanzees themselves and what made Jane fall in love with them in the first place is something not everyone is familiar with . In the Shadow of Man is a book about those stories and about the early years which would become many years of Jane Goodall 's study research and fascination with human 's closest living relatives.Not only is this book informational and descriptive about the complex lives of chimpanzees but it also reads like an entertaining tale as you follow the lives of the different chimps Jane Goodall comes to know and love . You learn the stories of Flo the old chimp mother and her family you grow to love one of Jane 's favorite chimps David Greybeard and you feel the pain Jane Goodall felt when nature takes its course in the chimpanzee world.Not only are the chimps the center of the book but readers also get a glimpse into the personal life of Jane Goodall herself . You follow her on her beginning adventures when she first steps into the Gombe forest and continue on her journey through research marriage and the birth of her own son . Throughout the book it feels as if Jane is actually speaking to you the reader and it is this aspect of In the Shadow of Man that sparks you to keep reading.Filled with adventure surprise facts and detailed accounts of the behaviors and lives of wild chimpanzees this book is for animallovers scientists and avid readers alike . Whether you are familiar with Jane Goodall or not In the Shadow of Man is a highly recommended read and one that is worth your time and money.To read more of my reviews please visit my blog at ",4
"Like another reviewer I 'm an anthropology student and I had to read this book for a class I 'm taking . Never has a book meant for education made me both laugh and cry out loud . It was simply wonderful . You will learn a lot about chimpanzees and I promiss you will never watch them in the zoo in the same way again . Even if you are not looking to learn about chimpanzee developement and behavior the book is excellent on a purely entertainment level . Even though this book is was a required reading I was so impressed that I 'm going out to buy her other books just out of interest . ",4
"I read this book for a class I took a class in Anthropology . It created in me a new form of respect for our not so distant cousins the chimpanzees . Jane Goodall is an amazing woman who in my eyes defied tradition having gone into this study without a real education in it she put her heart and her soul into the study of Chimpanzees in the Gombe . It in fact became her life . Her love for nature is evident throughout this book she even nicknamed her son 'Grub ' I believe he has another name but with all due respect I like the name 'Grub ' a lot . This book shows how after watching the chimpanzees Goodall learned how to be a mother . The similarities between these cousins of ours and us is truely amazing . For me this shed new light on the theory of evolution and even some that did n't believe in evolution began to question it after they read Goodal 's book . I quite enjoyed reading 'In the Shadow of Man ' and intend on reading more of her works . ",3
"Jane Goodall is a very good writer . And the book is enthralling and useful for its insights into her methodology . I was also pretty amazed at how much influence Louis B. Leakey had in her career he gets her funding from the National Geographic Society uses his influence to get her into a PhD program at Cambridge University even does a wee bit of matchmaking Sends her a photographer who Goodall ends up falling in love with.Towards the middle of the book it began to bother me that the focus was so much about how much interaction Goodall was able to have with the chimpanzees . Luring them closer with bananas etc feeling gratified when they allowed her to touch them . I admit that 's quite an achievement but there were points when I felt she was being quite foolhardy . And lucky.I wanted this book to about more than just the humanizing of chimpanzees . They 're wild animals . She gives them names David Graybeard William Goliath as if they were all part of one happy family . But is n't that in itself a construct ? Does n't that confuse the science ? Why should we celebrate if the chimpanzees start regarding her as a friend ? I 'm sure they do n't they 're primarily regarding her as a very easy food sourceThe truly powerful part of this book however is the last half beginning with Chapter 13 The Child . There is so much humanity and pathos in her descriptions of the individual chimpanzees in her research area . She loved the creatures that much is clear . And her observations are delivered in the most powerfully expressive writing . ",3
"I first came across this book when I was browsing a tiny library in the building basement a couple of doors down . I was probably around 1012 years old and unable to check out the book do n't remember why so instead I sat down in the stacks and began paging through it . I absolutely loved looking at all the wonderful photographs and reading the captions etc . I was so pulled in by Ms Goodall 's writings I found it such an interesting book and it stayed with me all these decades . I even majored in Anthropology in college that 's how inspired I was by this amazing book.The day I came across In the Shadow of Man Jane Goodall became my hero . Nearly forty years later I still feel drawn to her chimp stories . I think it 's time I buy it to have forever . Happy 80th Birthday Ms Goodall . ",4
"Bought this book for my sister I think she loves it . You guys need to ask about it before buying cause I did n't read a word of it . But anyway it was delivered fast and protected well the book looks great from outside . And by the author I assume that it is great from inside as well . ",4
"This was a gift for my daughter who is an environmental science major and requested it so of course she loved it . ",4
"This book succeeds both as a story of Jane Goodall 's career and as a portait of the life of the chimpanzees she studies . She captures moments when the animals ' human behavior gave me chills . A fascinating read . ",4
"I 've always wondered what ever motivated Jane Goodall to dedicate her entire life to chimpanzees . This book takes us from Jane 's childhood years to now and answered that question . Great book . ",4
"Everyone on the planet should read this wonderful book . What an adventure Miss Goodall had at such a young age . Her stories and research is told with such warmth and affection for the chimps . Her work continues to amaze . ",4
"In her own words Jane Goodall writes of her landmark studies of wild chimpanzees at the Gombe Stream Reserve in Tanzania . Starting out in 1960 Goodall a student of legendary anthropologist Louis Leakey set out for Tanzania to set up the first longterm research study on chimpanzees in the wild.Overcoming political strife harsh living conditions lacks of funding and the initial mistrust of the animals themselves Goodall 's work grew into a remarkable longterm scientific achievement . Goodall went on to devote more than forty years of work to the study of what many believe is mankind 's closest evolutionary relative.This book covers her early years setting up the camp establishing a rapport with the animals and learning about chimpanzee society and behavior . She describes her own experiences as well as the experiences of several chimps that she had the experience of following closely as they lived and grew in the Gombe Stream Reservation.Goodall names the animals and relates story after story of their personalities and their conflicts . She uncovers the dominance hierarchy of chimp society and traces the changing leadership of the community . Goodall was the first to observe toolmaking behavior in Chimpanzees and she relates the excitement of that early discovery.In spite of her obvious affection for the animals she is studying Goodall does not hold back when it comes to describing the brutality of some aspects of chimpanzee biology and society . She observed firsthand the devastating results of a polio epidemic on the local chimps and she does n't shrink from dealing with issues of aggression neglect and bullying that she oberved.She candidly discusses her own mistakes as well pondering on the compromises that she made early on to get close to the animals while raising the possibility that she could be altering their behavior by her use of feeding stations and close direct interaction.Goodall 's writing style is vivid intense and loaded with little details that bring the reader right into her world alongside the chimpanzees . She captures good scientific observations without losing her talent for storytelling and draws readers into the lives of the chimpanzees whose lives she follows.The book is supplemented by four sections of photographs by Goodall 's husband and fellow researcher Hugo van Lawick and it also includes an appendix with illustrations of chimpanzee facial expressions and behaviors . Stephen Jay Gould writes an excellent introduction to this edition focusing on the importance of Goodall 's work and on the importance of observational technique in the sciences.This is a true classic of scientific writing and a mustread for anyone interested in the study of animal societies in the wild . ",4
"A must read for humans to understand how we need coexist with nature and animals . Very well written and if you love Jane Goodall and her work this is a must read . ",4
"Jane Goodall showed us how chimpanzees are so much like us how individual animals have personalities and treated them as beings that deserve our consideration for their well being . ",4
"Jane Goodall is the right type of animal researcher in that she appreciates our primate cousins but does not degrade the role of humans as some animal rights activists do . This is a good introduction to her life and work . Readers will especially appreciate the role of her mother as the person who encouraged her on her path . Beautiful pictures as well . ",4
"A really fine volume . Jane Goodall describes her study of chimpanzees at the Gombe Stream in Tanzania . She and her team has studied these animals over a long period of time . This covers the social behavior of the chimpanzees in the earlier years of the study.The story occurs at several levels . One simply is the interaction of individuals with their own personalitiesFlo David Goliath Faben Merlin Passion and so on . Another level is the groupsociety . What is the structure of the society studies ? The book covers the life cycle of chimpanzees in this environment from infant on . It explores relations with other species . It looks at the variety of behaviors that characterize chimpanzee societyreproduction feeding hierarchy predation and so on . The book also addresses the challenges facing chimpanzees as humans encroach further.In the end a riveting book well worth reading . ",3
"Jane Goodall does an excellent job in describing how she started her career as a zoologist and humanitarian worker . She gives excellent descriptions of how chimpanzees interact as family members how they feel like people do and what people can learn from them . Her book makes us readers aware of how close animals can come to how human beings feel and act and that man is by no means far superior to animals . It also gives us an incentive to appreciate animals and to respect them . Obviously Jane Goodall observes and then accurately narrates . Even in the shadow of man animals develop healthy and man needs to respect that . ",4
"This was the first book I ever borrowed from the library as a kid . I met Dr Goodall herself a few years ago . A gorgeous wonderful woman . Humble . Quietly spoken . Impossible to ignore . My signed edition of this book is a treasure I 'll take to my grave ! Jane Goodall was once described as Conservation 's Greatest Rock Star . She was so far ahead of her time science is now only beginning to catch up . This is a beautifully written account of the beginnings of the longest continuous animal field study on earth . The discoveries Jane Goodall made at Gombe in Tanzania redefined not only science 's understanding of Chimpanzees but also redefined human beings . Because of Jane Goodall we could no longer consider man to be the only tool maker living on earth.In the Shadow of Man has all the elements of a bestseller politics violence sex warfare murder devotion tenderness even love . ",4
"If you buy this for a friend get two you 'll probably wish to read it again.His writing is so visual & evokes those times as no other book I 've read.It shows too why his movies became classics perhaps Renoir 's greatest masterpiecewas his son . ",4
"If you 're going to Paris anytime soon read this biography . Besides getting to know Renoir you can see what Paris looked like before Hausmann rebuilt it the neighborhoods it displaced etc . It is a joy to get to know the man behind the brush . Very worthwhile . ",4
"We adopted Renoir My Father as bedside reading while my wife was recovering from hip surgery and aside perhaps from Goodnight Moon I ca n't imagine better therapy . This is odd in a way Claude was an old man and in pain when Jean got to know him and Jean was an old man when he finally brought his recollectios together . You might expect cranky but nothing of the sort it 's a book full of sunny afterglow . Every parent would hope to be rememnbered so well.The book might take a bit of getting used to Jean has his own pace and his own way of telling his story . We did it in small doses and I 'm not certain yet that I quite catch the rhythm . None of the rough edges have been smoothed off which come to think of it is just as Claude would have wanted Jean speaks with his own voice . You have to listen well but you know that the voice is nobody else's.I suppose it helps to know a bit about the Impressionists to enjoy it all but I ca n't say I know all that much and I did n't feel impaired . Anyway God bless Google more than once when Jean talked about a painting or a subject I keyclicked my way to an image and completed as it were the picture.Kudos also to NYRB this time for producing what it does not always produce a finished physical specimen The paper feels like quality the binding is sturdy and there is a small but satisfying selection of pictures both colored and blackandwhite . There is even an index of sorts I assume from the original translator but it is patchy and incomplete . That last is a shortcoming but forgivable in light of the book 's other virtues . In the NYRB firmament this is surely a star . ",4
"An affectionate remembrance of Renoir by his son concentrating the years up to the turn of the century.Renoir considered himself an artisan rather than an artist disliked anything artificial from margarine to readytowear clothes had among his friends artists and musicians who are household names today . It is when you have lost your teeth that you can buy the best beefsteak he would say and considering that he became more infirm with age this truism affected him no less than the rest of us . ",4
"Renoir is n't dead . He lives in this book and in the minds of everyone who reads it . Every artist independent of medium needs to read this . ",4
"I was eager to read this story of Renoir 's life from his son 's perspective . I am a big fan of the Impressionist Painters and Renoir is without a doubt the very best . I loved learning about the type man he was . ",4
"I was required to read this for a book club . I finally gave up . I am an avid reader 23 books per week and after almost 2 weeks I gave up . Thank goodness I was n't the only one at book club who could n't get through it . VERY tedious . ",1
"Renoir was far more than one of the world 's greatest artists . He was an adventurer a family man a man who held interesting views on just about every subject under the sun and finally in his later years a martyr to life . Although this book was written by Renoir 's middle son Jean it is as vibrant and alive as if Renoir himself had just written the words in his own hand . Through this book we learn how the Renoir family left its roots in Limoges and moved to Paris . We read of Renoir 's early years as a painter of porcelain and how and why he became an artist more specifically an Impressionist . We learn of Renoir 's marriage to Aline Charigot of Essoyes the birth of his three sons and his move to the south of France . Some of the most interesting sections of the book deal with Renoir 's feelings about the effect of light on a painting and why he needed to paint in a natural setting . Also most interesting are the chapters on the birth of Impressionism and Renoir 's relationships with the other artists of the time such as Monet Manet Sisley and Cezanne just to name a few . Lovingly and charmingly written this book truly brings Renoir to life and makes him accessible to all . Absolutely a must for anyone with even a passing interest in art or artists ! ",4
"This book presents a very touching portrait of Auguste Renoir . The recollections of his son Jean are wonderful to read and bring the artist alive both as a man and as an aritst . And if you read the book you will see why The Cork preferred never to be referred to as an artist a title he certainly deserves ! ",4
"Not only is this a book about Renoir whose tableaux peer out of every other art store on every mall in North America what a curious fate ! it is also a book about Paris . Born in 1841 Renoir was older than most of the other Impressionists with whom he grew friendly later . He also had the chance to see Paris as it was before the Commune and the war of 1870 . He lived a good part of his life on the Butte in Montmartre and it is hard now to recapture the atmosphere up there among the hordes of tourists . Yet early on Sunday mornings with a light rain playing on the umbrellas of the artist 's stands in the Place du Tertre you can wander freely among the memories of the rue Lepic and elsewhere and catch glimpses of Renoir and others as you pass through the old streets . Reading this book first will help.Jean Renoir is a very famous artist in his own right having made numerous films and become one of the most acclaimed directors in French cinema history . Here he has taken great pains to paint a fine portrait of his renowned father this time with a pen . He has succeeded admirably . ",4
"This is a highly informative and nostalgic look at PierreAuguste Renoir . It is full of personal information about Renoir the man as well as Renoir the artist . I found the author Jean Renoir to be at all times accurate in his descriptions and portrayals . This book is a fascinating portrait of a man who became on of the world 's most loved artists . ",4
"Jean Renoir 's memoir of his father 's life is a tender hearted hagiography more than it is a linear biography . it is a book that could only have been written by a loving son . It is intimate as one would expect from a book written by a family member and at times Jean Renoir strays off to explain some relationship or episode in language that suggested to me that he was being flooded with memories as he wrote . This gives the book in certain respects the aspect of a long and rambling recollection of the great artist that incorporates the France that he lived and worked in beautifully and results in a highly atmospheric read.Near the end Jean Renoir wrote in describing Renoir 's final years in Cagne like all stories about Renoir it is devoid of anything sensational . For me that captures the spirit of this book . It is as intimate a portrait of a famous artist as I am ever likely to read and for anyone who is interested in Renoir and his work it is pure joy from beginning to end . A fabulous book . ",4
"The great film director Jean Renoir tells the story of the life of one of the great masters of modern painting his father Auguste Pierre Renoir . He does this in an intelligent perceptive and humane way . He was close to his father had many long intimate conversations with him and truly cared for honored and admired him.The story begins in 1915 when the young Renoir who has been wounded in the leg is released from the Army and returns home . He has too received terrible news which has crushed his father . The mother of the family has died . Returning home he and his father develop a closer relationship than they have had before.Young Renoir traces the history of the family back to the time of his great grandparents . He tells of the early years of his father when he worked as craftsman doing portraits on porcelain . He tells of his father 's understanding of his art and of the special joy in which he worked and lived.He describes his father 's economical and non romantic approach to Painting . And he also tells the story of how his father continued to paint also to the very last minutes of his life . And how the honors and wealth which came to Renoir in his last years did not effect his fundamental vision or way of working in life.What is apparent through this work is that a loving son truly seeks to understand and represent his father truly and that one great artist has a capacity for understanding another great one.A wonderful book . ",4
"One of the most beautiful memoirs ever not only about Renoir the painter but about the world long gone of 19th century France . In fact if you wanted to recreate that world this is the blueprint not the world of the rich and the powerful Proust is the blueprint for that but the world of the rustics the ruralurban poor the artisans.Jean Renoir 's own memoirs of his life in cinema are also fine but much more fragmented . He did write like an angel . ",4
"These shots were taken in 1989 just as China was about to burst into full blossom as an international powerhouse . I lived in China for six years from 2000 through 2005 and when I look at these pictures I 'm reminded powerfully of my first year there and all the changes that happened at light speed each year after that . If you have been to China or if you are Chinese and old enough to remember your land before 2000 this is a moving trip through vivid cultural and social memories.If you have any interest in China or photography this book is a must have for your library . Grab it and feel lucky to have a copy . ",4
"This coffee table book literally sits on my coffee table . Every member of my family looks at it just about every day we are constantly showing each other the pictures . It shows an amazing variety of moments from an amazing country . It draws you in and every time you look at it you see and learn something new . I highly recommend this book . I am thrilled with it . ",4
"Page 162163 shows a man holding up a little puppy as others look on including one smiling he is staring right into the puppy 's eyes while the decapitated carcass of another dog is right next to him . It says in the description that it is part of Cantonese culture to feed puppies with white rice for nine months and then butcher them . I want to make a point that any person who can stare a little puppy in the face and then butcher them during nonfamine times is not a human being . This is barbarism pure and simple . I really like Asian people but they ca n't hide behind culture and expect everyone else to keep quite the same goes for everyone else . This is the 21st century not the Middle Ages . Every group of people on the planet need to change for the better not make excuses for backwardness . ",2
"A good solid book to have about China . I 'm very glad that I got this . ",4
"The photography in this coffee table book is just wonderful . It 's a result of a project conducted on April 15 1989 the 40th anniversary of the founding of the People 's Republic of China ironically just before the protests of Tiananmen Square . Ninety of the world 's leading photojournalists fanned out across country and took photos leaving a record of a varied country . We see Buddhist monks clad in scarlet people practicing ballroom dance in public squares hundreds of bicyclists pedaling to the rain plastic ponchos a barebottomed toddler pedaling a bicycle Muslim men at prayer a psychiatric patient and Deng Xiaoping spending a quiet night at home babysitting his friends . The photos are huge and breathtaking and a volume well worth having as a record of life in this vast and varied nation . ",3
"Instead of purchasing this book here I recommend looking for it in stores like Waldenbooks or Barnes and Noble in their section of books on sale . These stores always have a section of huge books that have been marked down to very reasonable prices.This book is n't particularly huge but it is legitimate in its recipes . I have tried several recipes from this book and they 've all come out wonderful and comparable to the real deals that I 've tasted over in France myself . There was no need to alter any of the ingredients or amounts as so far I 've had no failuresdisasters in cooking from this book . It is divided up into sections poultry fish desserts etc . and each section opens first to an introduction to a region of France with a little bit of background . The book provides pictures for almost every recipe they list which I know can be helpful to some readerscooks to know what it is they 're cooking.I would say though that some of the recipes might require you to be a little adventurous as of course these authentic recipes require foods that Americans do not normally eat very often like lamb and rabbit for example . But I 've found that other than that the ingredients were not so exotic that I could n't find them in the store and was forced to make adjustments . ",4
"Very nice . bought as a gift . ",3
"Beautiful pictures and wonderful recipes they do n't make cookbooks like this anymore . Highly recommend this book for any cookbook collector andor anyone interested in the food of France . It 's great to cook and learn from and looks nice on a coffee table as well ! ",4
"I got this book on a closeout at my local bookstore and at that low price the book is wonderful . I 'd be a little less thrilled if I paid fullprice but only a little.I would guess that most The Beautiful books are probably purchased for their coffee table appeal . This is a large format book 12x18 with stunning photos of different areas of France and of the food there 's generally one picture of the finished dish for every two recipes . If you want a book to inspire you to travel to France or to go out to eat at a French restaurant or if you are searching for an impressive and pretty gift this is a nobrainer . It 's gorgeous.The recipes are very good too but I 'm tempted to say that they 're almost beside the point . There are 240 recipes divided in menulike sections first courses fish and shellfish poultry and game etc . rather than regionaly . Each recipe is marked with the region it comes from so you know that the mussels in cream is from Normandy and the veal rolls paupiettes are from Provence . There 's also a couple of pages with photos describing each region . Nicely done.I 'm not knowledgeable enough about French cooking to speak to the authenticity of the recipes but none of them were jarring . Most of the dishes are kept on the simple side I get the feeling that the real version might require a few more hours in the kitchen and they do have interesting if short introductions . The intro for cassoulet for instance gives a little history of this wellknown dish and mentions regional variations Toulouse adds Toulouse sausage leg of lamb and confit . You 'll find the usual suspects of French cuisine 240 dishes is a bunch but far from exhaustive.Most of the recipes are as I said very good . Their recipe for sole meuniere matches the one I use and I have my eye on their recipe for beef braised with Calvados.However the book does show that it was written in 1989 when it was difficult to find some exotic ingredients . The recipe for chaoucroute saurkraut with pork and sausage calls for among other things a smoked kielbasa and 6 Strasbourg sausages or frankfurters . David Rosengarten 's _Taste_ has a whole chapter devoted to charcoute which led me to spend my sole evening in Paris at a restaurant for which it 's the specialty maybe I 'll send him the bill and it 's obvious that these are gringo subsitutions . Kielbasa maybe frankfurters no way . Oddly though they do n't shy away from dishes made with venison or rabbit which I find much harder to find.As someone else mentioned the desserts chapter feels short there 's about 20 recipes here and I think most of us would assume that the French pastry section would be far larger.Overall this is a fine book particularly for inspiration purposes . If you can get it at a good price grab it . ",4
"A great collection of the recipes that gave French cuisine its international fame is awaiting you in this book . Do n't allow yourself to be intimidated by the excellent pictures and try some of these traditional dishes . The vast majority of the ingredients can be found in the United States . Just make sure you take your time to enjoy this wonderful food as the French take theirs to make meal taking an amazing experience . ",4
"This book is really packed and pretty . The pictures are great but I think it could have included more desserts . ",4
"A serious student of cooking that has been perfecting her skills over the last 25 years writes this review . I have traveled to Italy multiple times and have spent the last 10 years perfecting my Italian cooking skills . This book is part of my collection of cookbooks that now exceed 500 . I am a tough critic on Italian cookbooks . However this book is worthy is a good review.This book is part photographic essay of Italian food and travel and part cookbook . The author writes a brief history of each region 's food history in the chapters about the various regions . In the regional descriptions she tells you about the terrain of the area the basic diet and the various dishes that are classic to the regions.The book is subdivided as follows1 . NordOvest Lombardi Piemonte Val d'Aosta Liguria Region 12 . Antipasti Appetizers3 . NordEst Veneto FruiliVenezia Guilia TrentinoAlto Adige Region 24 . Primi First courses5 . Centro Toscana Lazio Umbria Marche EmiliaRomagna Region 36 . Secondi Main Courses7 . Sud Campania Abruzzi Molise Basilicata Puglia Calabria Region 48 . Verdure Vegetables9 . Grandi Isole Sicilia and Sardegna Region 510 . Dolci DessertsThe recipes are all authentic and very succinctly written . The directions are easy to follow . Some of the recipes stuffed pastas are a little advanced for the average cook . However with patience and practice all of them are possible . Most approx . 90 % of the recipes have photographs of the finished dishes included in the book.The book is well constructed the spine is stiff and heavy and the paper stock is thick and glossy.If you love Italy or Italy food andor cooking this is a beautiful book to add to your library . ",4
"This oversized book is full of beautiful photographs . Each recipe is accompanied by a large color photograph as well as its region of origin and Italian and English names . Italian cuisine is explored by region with spectacular photos and an engaging essay on the cuisine of each of the following regions il NordOvest il NordEst il Centro il Sud e le Grandi Isole . This is a cookbook not only to use in the kitchen but also to peruse for an enjoyable view of Italian landscapes and a taste of Italian culinary history and regional cuisine . ",4
"I own and love my Mexico the Beautiful Cookbook so I decided to invest and at 50 dollars it IS an investment in the Italian edition . I was severely dissapointed in it . The photography is indeed as beautiful as the Mexico book but the recipes are rather blah . I greatly prefer my books by Marcella Hazzan especially her Essentials of Classical Italian Cooking.After using Hazzan 's books this one left me cold . I gave it away and that is rare as I collect cookbooks . Save your money . ",1
"ITALY THE BEAUTIFUL COOKBOOK is just that a book brimming with known dishes and as well as rarities from throughout Italy presented in a format so well designed filled with excellent photography and thorough information about the country that it could rest as comfortably on the traveler 's coffee table as in the gourmet 's kitchen.Lorenza De'Medici takes the reader on an insider 's tour of Italy with readable maps stunning photographs of each region information about the peculiar characteristics of the regions that inform the recipes and then gives some of the finest recipes you 'll likely to encounter for dishes both simple and complex.As with the best of cookbooks this one contains images that show how the result of the time spent in the kitchen will look . De'Medici writes with candor and in a relaxed inviting style . This survey of Italian culinary arts and the historic background that accompanies them is as fine as any similar book on the market . Highly recommended . Grady Harp December 05 ",4
"Bleaah . Another of Lorenza de Medici 's big unwieldy books of gorgeous pictures of Italian scenery paired with mediocre recipes.The text not written by de Medici has several silly errors saying that sugar cane came from the New World and pumpkins from the Old which is backwards.The recipes are better than in some of her other cookbooks where we were treated to a gorgeous picture of for example croque monsieur which is n't Italian and is n't really a recipe.But not much better . Vegetarians might go for many of them since they are supposed to be from the peasant kitchens where meat was until recently seldom seen . Yet the recipes are dull enough . Steamed asparagus topped with butter and lemon is indeed a fine dish but not really a recipe.The food illustrations are punk well under the gorgeous picture of croque monsieur for example.The full page pictures of Italy are superb though if you like that sort of thing . ",1
"First off the photography is magnificent . The book is almost too nice to cook from so I copy recipes and retains its new look . Each recipe has a large color photograph and the text is easy to read . I 've been trying to cook my way thru this for years . So far everything has been delicious and certainly different . This would be a great gift for the cook on your list . ",4
"William Dalrymple has a great writing style and a deep apetite for understanding the historical and cultural context . He neither takes the clinical distant approach to his subjects neither does he use a patronizing attitude to India . If you have been to Delhi the book will be a great reading if are planning to go there it should be required reading . You will enjoy your trip so much more . Even if you do n't go to Delhi it is just a wonderful reading . Olivia has done a great job in her illustrations . ",4
"Really this book is a history of Delhi starting with modern times and progressing backwards to the very origins of the city . Dalrymple tells the story through his own visits to various sites and people in the city and interjects modern stories that add color to the city and its history . There is large emphasis on architecture which show up in some of Dalrymple 's other writings but is especially appropriate for Delhi with its long history of grand architectural projects and civic planning and its current collection of Moghul Raj and modern buildings.But in the end it is Dalrymple 's handling of the characters his severe Sikh landlady and her eccentric husband with his romantic interest in Dalrymple 's wife the oldmaid sisters living in their dusty mansion like antique relics of the Raj the AngloEnglish retired railway engineer and the secretive eunuchs that make this book really come alive.On a darker more journalistic and wideranging noteThe Age of Kali is an excellent companion or just worth reading on its own . ",4
"A really wonderful book about the city of Delhi . Dalrymple and his wife go to spend a year living in Delhi how did they afford this ? and he uses this arrangement as a way of chronicling the present day status of the city and delving deep into its history . He 's done a very nice job of moving back and forth between present and past managing to keep all his meetings and interviews with various experts quite interesting . The only part which lost my interest was an extended look into Sufi mysticism but I just skimmed it and moved along . Highly recommended to anyone with an interest in India and especially to anyone planning a trip to Delhi . ",4
"City of Djinns A Year in Delhi was a total delight to read.I loved how it was like each page was a dicovery of a new tidbit a new treasure of insight.The humor was also a delightful surprise.Has awakened a thirst to read more about colonial and modern India.Very highly recommended ! D ",4
"A great book about the history of India as told by a British man who resides in the city for a year . Well researched and with a lot of great eye witness reports the author illustrates various view points and various eras of the city very skilfully and interestingly . ",4
"I know I will never be able to visit India so my trip comes from books . Dalrymple is a great tour guide . He took me places that I would n't have been able to visit even if I flew to Delhi today.The people he met and described were as fascinating as the places he explored . This book is a combination of history tourism minibiography human interest archeology and anthropology . The mix was well balanced and Dalrymple 's writing ability made the entire book entertaining as well as educational.Please do not let the age of this book dissuade you from reading it . Dalrymple 's take on Delhi will still be worth the read for as long as people read.My only gripe worth a tenth of a star was with the only map . Though nicely drawn by his wife it was nearly useless . A more inclusive map would have added a tremendous amount to my enjoyment . ",4
"William Dalrymple is a historian and brings considerable authority to the field of architecture as well and architecture in Delhi is the chronicle in stone from which the cities long and turbulent history can be read.Djinns are ghosts and there are those that believe there are many in Delhi Dalrymple gets the ghosts of the city to speak of the past by going through endless archives . One of the richest archives it turns out was nearer to him than he thought . His wife Olivia Fraser is a descendant of William Fraser who was a legendary figure in early nineteenth century Delhi at a time when Delhi was a place of perpetual conflict at the outermost edges of the empire . Fraser raised his own army made up of the strongest warriors from each successive tribe that he conquered and he ruled Delhi in a way not incomparible to Conrad 's KurtzDalrymple makes the comparison . William and Olivia stayed in the Fraser residence in Inverness Scotland before leaving for Delhi only to find that one room away from where they were sleeping were stacks and stacks of William Fraser 's old letters.Dalrymple discusses at length the many great figures of Delhis past including James Forbes Fraser Sir David Ochterlony and James Skinner and after investigating them in books he then ventures out to find what remains of the forts and palaces they resided in.Also there is much from Delhis more recent past . Dalrymple interviews many still living Djinns who remember the great atrocities that followed the 1947 partition of India and Pakistan where vast numbers of people migrating in opposite directionsHindus into India Muslims to Pakistanbegan killing each other . Virtually all of old Delhi once famous for its high degree of Urdu culture was displaced by a largely peasant population of Punjabi immigrants which completely changed every aspect of the city including the language . A fascinating colony of the old Delhiwallahs lives on in exile in Karachi and Dalrymple heads there to hear stories from the exiled Djinns the last remaining voices of a once great city.Making his way further into the past through the travel narratives of the Italian Niccolao Manucci the Frenchmen Francois Bernier and the Moroccan Ibn Battuta Dalrymple brings to life the 17th century Delhi of Shah Jehan and the 14th century Delhi of Tughluk then explores what remains of the great cities that Delhi wasDelhi was rebuilt time and again at least eight different cities one on top of the otherand finds sometimes tucked away beneath or within one of the modern structures of this much more utilitarian and mundane age evidence of a once magnificent Mogul palace or courtyard or zenana . ",4
"If u like history and the city of Delhi it might be time well spent reading this book . Quite enjoyable . ",3
"I read this author 's In Xanadu and became an instant fan of his dry wit and eccentric onthecheap mode of travel reporting . Although City of Djinns is a bit more placid than Dalrymple 's trip across the breadth of Asia including a surreptitious bordercrossing into China in a coal car he still has dead aim at the culture history and people surrounding him in Delhi.He interacts with everyone from Sufi scholars to eunuchs to taxi drivers at the International Backside stand and of course his feisty Sikh landlady who cuts off his water supply to protest too many flushes.A tragedy cuts through the heart of Delhi and Dalrymple expresses it in the stories of the people who were affected by itthe Partition of the Indian subcontinent into the states of India and Pakistan in 1947 . The partition was based on religion and almost 12.5 million people were made refugees from their own homes . The majority of Moslems in Delhi was forced to flee to Pakistan . Sikh and Hindu refugees from Pakistan settled in the old Moslem neighborhoods of Delhi . Not everyone was able to flee . It is estimated that up to a million citizens were slaughtered during the Partition most of them by their neighbors . The author says it became clear that the events of 1947 were the key to understanding modern Delhi . The reports highlighted the city 's central paradox that Delhi one of the oldest towns in the world was inhabited by a population most of whose roots in the ancient city soil stretched back only forty years.Dalrymple and his wife spend a year in Delhi and stories of the unrelenting heat the traffic the festivals and the people are interwoven with strands from Delhi 's history usually introduced by a visit to one of Delhi 's ancient ruins such as the labyrinths of Shahjehanabad . It is in these strands that the invaders of India come alive from Alexander the Great through the Mughal princes and lastly the British more specifically a family of enterprising Scots.You will not find a more erudite upbeat in spite of the numerous tragedies volume on one of the world 's oldest cities . ",4
"A Djinn is a spirit not visible to the naked eye and to see one in Delhi India you have to cleans yourself from the natural world by fasting and prayer . In the ancient city of Delhi there are thousands perhaps tens of thousands of Djinns who serve to testify of both Delhi 's glorious and hideous past . Delhi is one of the oldest cities in the world and for the past 3000 years has reincarnated itself . To uncover its culture and civilization takes the care and commitment of an archaeologist or a journalist . William Dalrymple is an award winning journalist . In 1994 he was awarded the Cook Travel Award . In City of Djinns William Dalrymple paints a vibrant portrait of Delhi past and present with colorful words . His journalistic research and unique writing skills call forth the spirits of both times past and present illuminating for the reader the incredible history of this city.His humorous and provocative description of how he spent a year in Delhi with his artistic wife Olivia while he researched the city 's history brings contemporary Delhi alive . True to life characters like his authoritative spendthrift landlady Mrs. Puri or his slightly maniacal taxi drive Balvinder Singh give his settings an unusual liveliness . Add India pigeon lovers mystical healers an enterprising group of transvestites eunuchs the baffling Indian bureaucracy weddings parties funerals and religious holidays and voila you have an entertaining and informative travelhistory book.If you are going to or ever have been to Delhi India you owe it to yourself to read City of Djinns . Recommended . ",3
"After Dalrymple 's amazing first book In Xanadu City of Djinns is a very worthy followup . It deals not with a journey but with the author living in Delhi for and extended period of time . William and his wife Olivia live in an apartment in Delhi with a Sikh lady and her crazy husband . Together and separately they explore the various strands of the city.Like In Xanadu Dalrymple combines erudite historical investigation with a humorous account of life today . The historical aspect of the book is very complicated . Delhi has an ancient Hindu history a Muslim Mughal one a PunjabiUrdu one the Partition phase and its modern story . In this book Dalrymple tries his hand at digging through a bit of them all . From the violence of the Gandhi assasination riots to the extravagances of the Mughal court he leaves nothing unturned.His warm and clever perspective shines light on a city where so many cultures and ways of life come side by side from the modern secularised Sikhs like Balvinder their taxi driver to the huge hermaphrodite community in the city . A highly informative and entertaining book . ",3
"Whether you plan to visit Delhi have been blessed to have been there or just want to read an informative good traveler 's note not tourist tale then City of Djinns should be on your list of books to read . William Dalrymple paints a picture full of humor and fascinating detail mixed with love and frustration . Which is what Delhi is fascinating frustrating fun and full of incredible people . Delhi is multilayered and not easily explained . Delhi has to be experienced . Yet Dalrymple brings to life a lot of the feeling of this magnificent city . More importantly for me he brings to life part of its history details history books leave out alley ways that deserve to be explored . As a traveler blessed to return to Delhi fairly often I have found the details of Dalrymple 's book adding value to my visits by knowing which alley ways might just be explored . ",3
"Dalrymple does an amazing job of describing India and the Delhi in particular it 's somewhat difficult to describe what goes on in India without sounding like a bit of a buffoon or ugly Westerner but Dalrymple paints a pretty accurate picture without sounding condescending . I liked this enough to read other books on India he has written . ",4
"A truly marvelous book for anyone who loves India whether they have been there in the flesh or in spirit . Dalrymple is simply one of the best writers around when it comes to creating a tapestry that has inner and outer journey so beautifully interwoven . ",4
"City of Djinns A Year in Delhi William Dalrymple HarperCollins 1993 City of Djinns A Year in Delhi was my travel reading for my first trip to India in the summer of 2007 a trip which began and ended in Delhi . Having read other writers and other Dalrymple books on India before I set out I read City of Djinns A Year in Delhi first on my outward journey and then reviewed it again as we made our way back to Delhi on the last stage of our tour . The book was an invaluable resource supplementing the illinformed and poorly spoken guides who were difficult to understand and unable to answer questions in any depth . Dalrymple 's book helped me to tie the city and its sites and history together into some sort of coherent whole . I also found the penandink illustrations by Dalrymple 's wife Olivia Fraser very illuminating . Although at first sight they struck me as much too calm and uncluttered to convey the true image of the places they posed I later came to appreciate how they captured the inherent essence of their subject and spoke volumes in their simple way.As a journalist Dalrymple has a knack for finding the right people to talk with people with living memories of the time he writes about who can bring to life the crumbling ruins they inhabit and instil us with visions of the beauty that once radiated in Delhi . It is certainly difficult to see today but reading the stories did help me to understand the sensibilities of some of the Delhiwallahs we encountered in our travels.My one criticism of the book is that he reuses material that has appeared elsewhere which broke the rhythm of my involvement with his story and made me feel uncomfortable . These passages were extensive and not changed sufficiently to feel new in any way . I was surprised that his editors allowed this to pass unless there were deadline difficulties.The overall impression that I was left with is that India today is still suffering from the reverberations of the devastation of partition which brought incomprehensible tragedy and hardship and touched almost every family in India in one way or another . As we watch India vie for its place in the globalised technological marketplace we will understand her better if we remember this recent backstory in her development . ",3
"I had heard of William Dalrymple from various people who recommended that I read his books.Finally while on an extended trip to Bangalore India I picked up a couple of his books . I started with the City of Djinns since I had lived and studied in New Delhi and was a history buff.This book provides is a succinct history of the ancient city of Delhi as seen through the eyes of the author who spent a year in Delhi.Dalrymple peels back the layers of this old city in an interesting manner and gives us an interesting and dynamic glimpse of what the city must have looked like then . What is interesting is that he unravels the past history of Delhi through the eyes of informed denizens of the city . There is a tinge of nostalgia and poignancy when he unravels the history and introduces us to the old and fast disappering history and culture of Delhi . In this process we get to read about the idiosyncrasies of Lutyens the Britisher who envisioned and built new Delhi and we meet the last surviving members of the powerful Mughal Empire and how their existence is reduce to one of penury.We get an understanding of how the eunuch culture came into existence and how it continues to survive in modern day Delhi.Since the book falls under the Travelogue category I would recommend this as a must read book for those who want to know more about Delhi . The next time you visit Delhi step away from the usual tourist circuit and explore some of the areas that Dalrymple talks about in his book.But even if you are not traveling to India this is a good read that helps us understand how cities are fast morphing into new entities and in this process a lot of the intricate social and cultural underpinnings of the society are being replaced by new social and cultural norms . ",4
"Started reading this before my trip to Delhi . Glad that I did n't finish it as I 'm really enjoying reflecting on my trip after the fact . ",3
"I was born and brought up in Delhi and lived there for 21 years of my life after which I emigrated to the United States . This book made me feel that how oblivious many of us 'locals ' are of the many riches and insights that my home city has to offer.William Dalrymple peels the multilayered culture of the historical city of Delhi seven times the capital of empires ruined and rebuilt again . He spans from the Punjabi immigrants that 've filled the newer parts of economically booming Delhi sice the partition of India in 1947 to the more historic but now decrepit old Delhi where the legendary age old 'Persian ' customs such as the 'Kabootar ' Pegion fights the 'Chor ' Thief Bazaars and the mysterious 'Hakims ' Doctors practicing an old school of medicine are unquestioned parts of the daily lives of many . Dalrymple also describes the curious and unique collision of history leading to the current day fate of the Indian Hijras Eunuchs who ring the door bells of apartments of Delhi 's denizens in the old city and the new on any kind of festivity . He describes the fascinating history and architecture of the tomb of Himayun and Hazrat Nizamuddin the charming old 'Quawaalis ' musical forums still alive there and many other monuments that I visited umpteen times as a kid the 'Sadhus ' an ancient culture intact with flavors the list is endless . Somehow I missed making the connections and could see the beauty of the entire kaliedoscope when I read this book . I find my visits to Delhi so much more fascinating . One thing that the readers must be made aware though is the overt focus on history of Mughal Persian Delhi which is for a reason that all the preMughal monuments were destroyed . The Delhi that exists is newer than the spirit of the city really is.Since I read this book I always try to find such books on the cities I 've visited . A strong recommend for anyone visiting Delhi you can choose to be put off by the seeming boorishness of the existing 'New ' Delhi or scratch beneath the surface and discover magic ! ",4
"I loved Dalrymple 's FROM THE HOLY MOUNTAIN and this book is just as good . Young age 25 Dalrymple with his wife Olivia spent a year in Delhi doing research and has written a fascinating book about a colorful city with a long and turbulent history . What makes the book so interesting is not its history but Dalrymple 's daytoday dealings with the Delhiwallahs he knows . There 's his pennypinching Sikh landlady Mrs. Puri who has built an impressive financial empire in Delhi since she arrived penniless from the Punjab in the partition of 1947 . Dalrymple gets quite few laughs from her tightfisted philosophy but also ultimately reveals her to be a vulnerable human being . There 's also his irrepressible driver Mr. Balvinder Singh of the International Backside Taxi Company who takes the Dalrymples on hairraisingly fast rides through the throng of Delhi traffic all the while cursing other drivers and pointing out attractive women along the roadside . But the person in Delhi that Dalrymple obviously has the most affection for is the gentle Muslim intellectual Dr. Jaffrey who has a beautiful story about virtually everything . The Delhi that Dalrymple reveals is not what I had expected . My favorite parts of the book were about the partridge fights the storefront healers and the mysterious subculture of the eunuchs who support themselves not only by dancing at weddings but by threatening to flash if people do n't give them money . Dalrymple makes several interesting excursions among them a trip to Karachi to visit the writer Ahmed Ali and a trip to the hill station of Simla the scene of so many illicit romantic intrigues in Kipling 's stories.One thing I found extremely interesting about the book is that the rule of the British has been virtually forgotten by the Indians . Yes the English left their language behind but it has evolved into a colorful dialect all its own which Dalrymple shockingly compares to American . This is a thoughtful and provocative book written with charm and good humor . Dalrymple 's own language verges on the poetic throughout the book . Here 's a sentence describing the elderly Muslim exiles now living in Pakistan The old men swam together through great oceans of nostalgia before finally coming ashore on a strand of melancholy . What more can I say ? It 's a beautiful book . There 's a useful glossary of Indian words appended as well as a detailed bibliography . Olivia Fraser Dalrymple supplied the evocative watercolor artwork . I 'm planning a trip to India when I retire four years from now . I 'm so glad I read this book . ",3
"I did n't finish this book . I usually love this kind of book . I got tired of all the Indian Jargon . Yes it has a glossary but many of the words were n't even there . There were references to things never explained . It was like I came in on a movie in the middle . The narrative was just not enough to keep going . ",0
"In City of Djinns A Year in Delhi William Dalrymple enacts the roles of journalistcontemporary interviewer traveler myth teller scholarly historian even comedian . He moves seamlessly from past to present and talks to survivors and descendants of the Pandavas the Moghul era the violent Partition and the British Raj even the kin of a Muslim saint . He exposes the real murderous venal oversexed Shah Jehan creator of the Taj Mahal arguably the most beautiful building on the planet and his equally nasty family . He interviews two elderly paranoid racist British sisters and another impoverished British woman who lives in a hut with a cobra under her bed that eventually kills her . He attends religious festivals weddings funerals explores longforgotten ruins travels by bus and train and foot visits dusty libraries and consults local experts on a myriad of subjects . He describes his eccentric living arrangements with a shrewd Sikh landlady and her addled husband his colorful local driver the beautiful maid who does n't know how to dust.This was one of Dalrymple 's earliest books written in the 90s illustrated with his wife Olivia 's artwork preInternet and pregoogling . I ca n't help but think that if he had written it today he could have produced virtually the entire book from his comfortable office in the UK but it would have lost so much in atmosphere and personality.The Delhi that he describes in this book is truly a city of Djinns spiritsdemonsghosts with a very long memory and a very colorful past . Almost twenty years have passed since this book was published so there have been many more changes to this perpetually reincarnated city that has seen it all . ",4
"I seldom read contemporary travel books but found this to be a fascinating read in large part due to the author 's device of bringing the past to life by alternating between the present and the past . In effect this is two books in one the first a wonderful exploration of modern Dehli the second a history of India . The excursion to the past start in the recent past and move backwards in time as the book progresses . It might sound a bit odd to replay history in a counterchronological fashion but it works beautifully by establishing a personal connection with the past through living people early in the book . I love the descriptions of the many people he gets to know in contemporary Dehli . As the book progresses and one is eventually transported to events of past millennia the author succeeds in maintaining that connection by showing us that the history of India even the ancient history is present in the everyday life of the country today.I lived in India some years ago and never realized how much I missed . Now I can not wait to return . ",4
"This is a superb book on Delhi 's history without the textbook type narrative that usually is associated with books like these.Appreciating Delhi is difficult for most nonDelhi wallahs for the ostentatious ways and too aggressive nature of its modern day denizens..but having read this book is like lifting the screen to see a much more beautiful and unbelievably long past of the city to date a city 's history till that long back is truly an amazing feat shown by Dalrymple here.Dalrymple gives comprehensive and unbiased accounts from the city 's birth to it present day status toggling between anecdotes of his own experiences in the city . In doing so he succeeds in bringing out the secret lives of the eunuchs passionate pigeon fights in Old Delhi the wild rule of William Fraser in the jungles of Mehrauli the frivolous codes of the decorum practiced in Mughal period the popularity of the Sufi saints and their powers and much more to help you envisage the rich heritage of the city . ",3
"Dalrymple is fast becoming a superstar in travel writing . Read City of Djinns and you will understand why . His style is authorative yet not pompous . His anecdotes are funny without being offensive to local sensitivities . Everything he writes will bring back images and feelings amongst those who have travelled around the old decaying Mughal city . What a beautiful place it must have been in its heyday some 300 years ago.He does n't come at you from any predisposed angle . He just tells you what happened during the Moghul British and then the India days from the view point of every day people . And unlike many a British writer he does n't shy away from taking the arrogant colonialists to task for their blatant mistreatment of one of history 's richest cultures . The decline of the Moghul empire comes across as equally pathetic . The racial hatred that has followed partition is also laid bare in the most frightening detail a sea of Muslims and Sikhs sent to inhabit each other 's territory with no chance of ever going home.This is travel writing that is frustratingly good and often very very funny to those who grew up in either India or the UK . If only I could tell stories as good as this . Five Stars . ",4
"This a travel journal to both modern India and back in time in Indian history . Both are woven together in a thoughtful personal narrative that combines wisdom and humor . ",4
"Excellent book ! ! There is a touch of Khushwant singh 's prose history narrative check out Khushwant Singh 's Delhi . Good quality and such books become a lifelong collection to be read again and again . ",4
"'City of Djinns a year in Delhi is probably the finest book on the city of Delhi covering mostly its recent history of 400 years . It is lovingly and passionately researched and is embellished with endearing encounters . The author spends a whole year in Delhi in 1989 and researches for four more years to produce this gem of a book . It was of particular interest to me as I lived in Delhi for five years in the mid 1970s . This book teaches me how little I knew of the city and its history . The author was just 25 years old in 1989 and shows what a scholar and culturallysensitive person he was especially coming from as foreign a culture as that of Scotland . He talks about the many Delhis that exist and has existed in the past.He starts out with India 's partition and reveals poignantly the chasm between the old Delhiwallahs and the new Punjabi immigrants after partition . The Urduspeaking elite both Hindu and Muslim who inhabited the city for centuries during the Mughal and British times looked down on the 'boorish uncultured ' Punjabi immigrants . Their memories of Delhi consisted of Mushairas and mehfils literary evenings of great Delhi poets subtlety and perfection in Urdu and the Delhi cuisine . They saw the new Punjabi immigrants as essentially colonizing farmers . On the other side the Punjabis see the old Delhiites as lazy indolent slothful and effeminate . Consequently the two Delhis never really meet and mingle . In his research on the old Delhiwallahs Dalrymple even goes and meets Ahmed Ali a quintessential old Delhi elite who ends up in Karachi much against his will as a result of the partition of India . Ahmed Ali tragically spews venom on partition and Pakistan . But he would n't set foot in Delhi even when he accidentally lands in Delhi airport . ' I wo n't put foot on that soil which was sacred to me and has been desecrated ' says Ahmed Ali.Dalrymple also reflects deeply on the New Delhi of the architect Lutyens . He says that the Imperial Delhi of Lutyens reminds him of Nuremberg . To quote his brilliant prose 'in its monstrous almost megalomaniac scale in its perfect symmetry and arrogant presumption there was a distant but distinct echo of something Fascist or even Nazi about the great acropolis of Imperial Delhi..Authoritarian regimes tend to leave the most solid souvenirs art has a strange way of thriving under autocracy . Only the vanity of an Empire an Empire emancipated from the constraints of democracy totally selfconfident in its own judgement and still despite everything assured of its own superiority could have produced Lutyens ' Delhi.Dalrymple explores the many Mughal monuments in Delhi and delves into the city 's life in Mughal times . As I read on I realized that much of the Mughal history in India that was taught to me in highschools was mostly a sanitised and untrue version of reality . The brutalities of MohammedbinTughlak the massacres in Delhi at the hands of Nadir Shah and Mohammed Ghori and the unjust rule of Aurangzeb have been spelt out in detail in the book . On reflection I suppose it is just as well that the truth not be told to young minds in India as it would only contribute to greater chasm between Hindus and Muslims . Perhaps the incestuous advances of Emperor Shah Jahan towards his daughter Jahanara could have been hinted at in our text books ! The book examines the legacy of the many living Sufi legends such as Hazrat Nizamuddin Khwaja Khizr and MoinuddinChishti and shows the strength of the syncretic culture of India . The author shows us the diversity of Delhi through his meetings with Unani medicine practitioners pigeonfanciers the eunuchs of the city traditional calligraphers and other religious healers . The lighter side is seen through his Sikh landlady Mrs.Puri and her husband and Dalrymple 's favored taxidriver Balvinder Singh of the International Backside Taxis ! This is at once a travel book a book on Delhi 's history the diary of an young erudite man as well as an account of a pilgrimage . It is simply a brilliant work . ",4
"Delhi is a city of many flavors . Some can be tasted some viewed some just felt and still others which are just to be believedjust taken for granted.This little book by Dalrymple brings to life a new flavor on almost every leaf.One moment you will have your heart racing finding yourself in the midst of a mehfil at the pinnacle of Delhi 's literary history and a page later you will suddenly be transported to dereliction of today 's old Delhi description of mouth watering delicacies from Dara Shikoh 's wedding is contrasted by thirst and hunger of Daulatabad death march.The book is remarkably lucid and continuous yet it webs off to touch an aspect of Delhi 's life and pulse leaping off once in a while only to loop back again to complete a full circle.Alternating between past and present like day and night the author spans over 3000 years of Delhi 's history and history of its peoples in an ingeniously funny and at the same time poignant way.Dalrymple is a genius of pen and perception and City of Djinns is simply a superlative work of art . ",4
"City of Djinns is by far the best travel book I 've ever read . It transcends the genre . It was given me by an historically minded Delhiwallah and he could n't have offered a better volume . Mr. Dalrymple not only spent a year in Delhi he spent centuries in the history of the 7 Delhis that have been built and lost . This is not a go here see this sort of travel book . It is a discover the wonder book . Modern Delhi is a mess of a city but Mr. Dalrymple takes us deeply beyond the mess into the wonder that exists and the magic that was . The incredible political and family history of Shah Jehan the founder of Delhi Shahjehanabadis the Godfather story of family members who would stop at nothing to win the empire . There is a severed head in this story that makes the horse 's head in The Godfather look like child 's play . This small portion of City of Djinns is worth the price of admission . I 've spent a few months in Delhi and this book would have made a better introduction than any of the usual guidebooks as it is it will make my return to the City of Djinns all the richer . ",4
"dalrymple is simply one of the best travelogue writers today as he lives breathes imbibes the culture & amp history of the places he travels to . in this book he takes you to the delhi india of old a once beautiful and cultured city and revisits the historical political and cultural forces that shaped it . dalrymple does all this with a keen eye and a sympathetic ear for the inhabitants of the new delhi . he shows an unusual understanding for the people who once lived there and who live there now their aspirations & amp fears . even more remarkable is the fact that the empathy dalrymple feels comes through while he successfully avoids sounding patronizing in his depiction of old & amp new delhi . all in all a fabulous and very enjoyable travelogue historical account and sympathetic tale from a man who truly belongs without having been born or raised there.. ",4
"This book 90 % informative and 10 % humorous equals 100 % reading enjoyment . It 's a delightful and entertaining history of Delhi India told in a very ingenious way it runs in reverse pattern from conventional history books in that it starts with the most recent history first and then gradually works back into time ending in the ancient . However what I enjoyed the most was how the author always introduces some presentday aspect an existing ruin or a living person as background material on which he weaves his historical journey in and out of Delhi 's past and present . For example a Dr. Jaffrey is his link to the Red Fort a now very old Indianborn English woman Alice describes her associations with Lutyens the creator of New Delhi a Pakeezah Begum a crownprincess and librarian is one of the last surviving descendants of the Mughal emperors and becomes the modernday connection to history of the Mughal dynasty and the very decrepit Residency tells you about Delhi 's romantic past in the era when it was beautifully intact.I do n't know why but to me the most poignant stories told were about the AngloIndians who ended up abandoned by both Britain and India after the birth of an independent India . I never realized such unfortunate people existed becoming political refugees denied rights by India the country of their birth and by the UK to which they had blood ties . Mr. Dalrymple interviews a few of these people who by now have grown old and are the living remnants of hardball politics of a bygone era . They give their personal accounts of their own hardships . As victims abused by the system they were denied basic privileges . These interviews are still quite vivid in my memory.In the midst of all the daunting history of this city Mr. Dalrymple intersperses his daily experiences in the form of funny stories about his landlady and apartment plus he pokes fun of the heat the noise the traffic the drivingall the typical Indian imageries that have been branded in our minds . While these did add diversion to the detailed history my one fault with the book is that these incidents happened to be the sameole stereotypical situations that have been run to the ground about India . I was disappointed that he did n't exert a more pioneering in spirit and come up with more original subjects . Nevertheless he has a natural talent for describing comical situations or do I mean describing situations comically ? . In spite of this one criticism I ended up with big smiles on my face many times . And his prowess at transcribing the English spoken in India to the tee ca n't help but put a grin on your face.In summary this is an excellent read just for the sake of learning about a fascinating place . I especially recommend it for history buffs and I heartily recommend it to familiarize yourself with Delhi if it 's on your list of travel destinations . I can honestly say that after reading City of Djinns I most definitely will invest my next time in Delhi looking into some of the sites and districts brought to life in this book . ",4
"This is n't a guide book . Or a clever fiction that if fun to read because it takes place where you happen to be traveling . This is an deep dive into some hidden aspects of an ancient and fascinating city . Much of which is barely visible in this very modern city but is still important essential even to understanding Delhi.I was lucky enough to read this book while living in Delhi for a year myself . Certain aspects of the city the book covers like the eunuchs and partBritish Indians are largely faded from the landscape.. many only there if you look hard enough like Dalrymple does . Even if you do n't experience them directly they give context to certain areas of the city places you might pass over without a second glance take on a whole different perspective.If nothing else stood out from the books the writers take on the riots after Indira Gandhi 's death are worth the read . The subtle undercurrents of tension in India can often be lost on the casual observer . But if you want to understand this complex city it 's worth learning the harshest parts . Often history glosses over the dark parts but this book dives right in . After all the Djinn 's are the ghosts that make the city what it is . Do n't get stuck on the modern veneer take this book with you and explore the rich and complicated history of Delhi . ",4
"I read this book when it was first published I was living in New Delhi at the time . Dalrymple 's writing astounded me especially for one so young as he was then . I 've thought of the book many times in the past 15 or so years and when I learned one of my friends plans to travel to N.D. in the coming spring I knew I had to gift her with this book . She will love it as much as I do I predict . The layers of the city are peeled back through Dalrymple 's sensitive approach to history and culture and the reader is transported to places and times that are long gone as well as those that are contemporary . Walking through the streets of New Delhi and Old the reader feels as though the City has come alive in some other dimension . Voices speak from the past and some of those voices have lessons to share . ",4
"The first thing that is incredibly interesting about this book is the way it is approached . To call it a travel book I feel is diminishing the many other aspects & experiences this book is about.This book is kind of a diary of Dalrymple & wife 's year in Delhi . And it is also a book of history scattered behind the sights the people & the culture . Dalrymple narrates compellingly candidly without biases & with plentiful humour . Stories abound of the destitute but historically cultured 'old Delhiwallahs ' & the loutish Punjabi nouveau rich of AngloIndians living in reminisce & poverty of the Delhi eunuchs of Dervishes that speak in parables of partridge fights of khalifas of Balwinder Singh 's buoyancy & lust of Mr & Mrs Puri 's idiosyncrasies.And while you 're drifting from one of these interludes to the other you 're taken centuries back to the Kingdom of Shah Jehan Aurangzeb 's treachery & network of spies of incest in Royal Harems of Englishmen who smoked hookahs some who became Indian in their ways beyond recognition some who continued their English ways of the partition of Tughlak 's barbaric ways of the refined mannerisms of a mirza during the Mughal period of the Red Fort & what lies beneath.Dalrymple is also an astute recorder of conversations . Some of the 'Indian English ' that is spoken is in such sharp contrast to Dalrymple 's speech that you can not help but get tickled . However I do not think that Dalrymple 's intention is mockery for there are plentiful other examples to the contrary.I definitely learned & relearned a lot from this book . I also developed a sense of Delhi 's history & a empathy for it 's present . And I smiled a lot . ",4
"` City of Djinns ' offers us a history of Delhi that gradually draws us back in time as the book progresses interspersed with an account of the authors own time living there . There are beautiful watercolour illustrations throughout that were painted by the authors wife and which are reproduced in black and white . These really add an extra dimension to the book and I enjoyed coming across a new painting every ten pages or so . Dalrymple 's descriptions really conjure up life in the Delhi of the past as well as making you envisage modern day life based on his own events and experiences . You can almost taste smell see and hear the Delhi he so richly paints for us and some of the Islamic poetic phrases he stumbles across are at times simply breathtaking . Delhi is portrayed as a mix of Sikh Muslim Hindu and British in one bubbling pot with the creativity and conflicts this diversity engenders . The friendships Dalrymple strikes up are a pleasure to read and add some humour and insight to the overall book . All in all this was a delightful read that captures the essence of Delhi in just over 300 pages . It is easy to read and offers an accessible introduction to the various stages of Indian history from the perspective of one town . This is well worth checking out if your interest was piqued enough to have searched for this book or even if you have stumbled across the product page by accident.Feel free to check out my blog which can be found on my profile page . ",3
"I enjoyed this novel . If you have a passing interest in India 's fascinating history you will find it a light but interesting read . Or if you wish to visit the subcontinent and Delhi it will illuminate your understanding of this complex city . Dalrymple tells the story of a city that has been ruled by Mughals Sikhs Hindus the British and more recently regained its independence . I read it swiftly . Pleasant narratorauthor who added depth to the history by plumping out past historical figures and including current day Delhiwallahs in their daily life . I would recommend this novel . ",2
"I lived in Delhi for just under a year in the eighties and if I had had this book then it would have been a completely different experience for me . I walked by so much history in puraani delhi and understood little of its significance . When I return to Delhi this book will light my way into Mughal British and Sufi Delhi.I agree with another reviewer that Dalrymple says relatively little about Hindu Delhi but I think Delhi is one of the most historically cosmopolitan of cities in a subcontinent that is often painted as Hindu in broad strokes . I hope no reader takes as disrespect when I say that Hindu India gets plenty of attention I am glad that Dalrymple focused on what cultural roads are less traveled . He does tell and beautifully so the story of the role of Delhi 's ancestral settlement in the Mahabharata.What I loved most about the book was its portrayal of the vibrant Sufi community in India the life of a Sufi dargah the Qawwali singers . Learning about Sufi Delhi was a great and valuable revelation to me . ",4
"_City of Djinns A Year in Delhi_ by William Dalrymple is an excellent portrait of a fascinating city . I have to admit having read a few travel essay books on India that the image I had of the city was of a fairly uninteresting place a city of gray bureaucracy as the author put it . Dalrymple showed me just how wrong I was in this intimate depiction of Delhi past and present.One of the first things the reader learns in this book is that there is more than one Delhi . The two main Delhis are Mughal Old Delhi and Punjabi New Delhi each keeping largely to itself each absolutely certain of its superiority over the other . Old Delhi has been inhabited for thousands of years its Urduspeaking elite both Hindu and Muslim having lived in the city for many centuries the city an ancient one of sophistication and culture though also a city in severe decline with many of its once magnificent palaces gardens tombs and mosques once examples of the silky refinement of Mughal architecture now crumbling into ruin decaying into something approaching seediness . Many of its citizens are among the last to practice trades dating back to Mughal times and a large number of them live in exile in Pakistan . In contrast New Delhi is a growing booming bustling city of hardworking nouveauriche entrepreneurs largely comprised of people whose roots only go back to the catastrophic days of Partition in 1947 when hundreds of thousands of Punjabi Sikh and Hindu refugees poured into the city . Though I did not get a sense of great conflict between the two Delhis there was some tension there are those Old Delhi elites who regard the Punjabi colonizers as unrefined unsophisticated vulgar and even boorish while there are Punjabis who despise the residents of Old Delhi as effeminate slothful and degenerate.There are however really more than just two Delhis some count seven Delhis the current New Delhi being the eighth while others count 15 20 or even more . Even New Delhi is he wrote in 1989 not that new it is a groaning necropolis a graveyard of dynasties . Many different centuries exist side by side making it a city disjointed in time a city of nouveauriche Punjabi immigrants of the latter part of the 20th century coexisting with AngloIndians from the days of the Raj and fakirs sadhus and even eunuchs which really surprised me that would have been at home during the days of the Mughals.Dalrymple takes the reader to the many amazing sights and experiences of all the Delhis . He visited a Sufi enclave positively medieval in character home to mystic dervishes sought by all manner of pilgrims for enlightenment for prayer for salvation from djinns which many even Sikhs and Hindus believed in . Dalrymple spent time and effort trying to penetrate the enigmatic society of eunuchs no longer guarding Mughal harems they have a complex and hidden society complete with territories India and Pakistanwide council of eunuchs and a Central School of Dance where eunuchs learn folk traditional and modern dance performing at households that have had weddings or births informed of such by their network of informants their presence seen as both a blessing and a curse . He visited festival celebrations such as Dusshera the Hindu feast celebrating the victory of Lord Ram over the demon Ravanna Dilwali the Hindu festival of lights and alvida the goodbye the last Friday of the fast of Ramadan a major event in the Old City . He journeyed to see pigeon fanciers a passion of the long gone Mughal court partridge fights another Mughal tradition old AngloIndian families who came to suffer the worst racial prejudice of both Indians and British most having emigrated to America Canada and Australia the few that remained were as he wrote the optimistic the old or the nostalgic staying on despite some remaining Indian resentment as well as increasing poverty and a hakim clinic hakims being Muslim doctors practicing ancient Greek and Unani medicine the latter of which was derived from heretical Nestorian Christians fleeing to Sassanid Persia to avoid Byzantine Empire persecution passing on their knowledge to the Persians who in turn passed those skills to early Arab conquerors of Islam who brought their skills to Central Asia and then eventually to India when refugees fleeing Genghis Khan arrived in the subcontinent in the 13th century.In addition to a tour of places in Delhi as one might gather the author covered a great deal of history interweaving it in a skillful manner as it related to his various travels and encounters . Much of the history covered Mughal times though he also covered at length the Raj Partition and even as far back as the incredibly ancient times of the great Hindu epic _Mahabharata_ an ancient epic much like the Greek _Iliad_ which like the _Iliad_ has some basis in fact though it became a story that imposed much later and more elaborate material culture among others things from the 4th century AD on what were events that originally transpired in the 9th century BC.The author provided detailed profiles of many residents of Delhi past and present . Mr. Balvinder Singh was a notable figure an individualist who believes in the importance of asserting himself a taxi driver who befriended William and his wife Olivia a hilarious character to read about at times . Also important were Mr. and Mrs. Puri the Sikh couple that was their landlords and who also became friends and Dr. Yunus Jaffrey a gentle scholar of classic Persian an expert on Mughal times . Notable past figures included the murderous tyrant Sultan Tughluk the 14th century Moroccan adventurer Ibn Battuta the highly artistic but brutally coldblooded Shah Jehan he constructed the Taj Mahal William Fraser an early 19th century Scot who styled himself a local ruler Dalrymple compared him to Mr. Kurtz from _Heart of Darkness_ and Sir Edwin Lutyens a fabulous architect who was regrettably quite racist . ",4
"Fascinating vivid historical descriptions of India I found it riveting at first but it became somewhat dry and repetitive as you passed beyond the first third . ",3
"I 'm trying to learn more about India and thought that reading this work on Delhi would provide unique insights . I thought the approach was interesting but while reading I continuously felt that I was missing something . Dalrymple segues between topics almost conversationally but I kept losing the historical timelines . Sometimes I needed to know much more and often much less.The book does give a sense that Indians are very generous with their time and patient too . ",2
"The book traces the life of one of most intrepid explorers of findesiecle 19th century Sir Francis Edward Younghusband FEY.FEY was a man of many talents explorer writer athlete spy thinker and philosopher . Born to English parents in ` Imperial ' India FEY spent his early years at Dharamshala where he came under the influence of his maternal uncle Robert Shaw . Shaw was a keen adventurer and trekker himself which left a deep impact on the young FEY.FEY started his career as an official of the British Empire and because of his treks to China Gobi desert and within India Rohtang Pass he became recognised as an explorer . At the turn of the century Tibet remained one of the last uncontrolled regions in the 'Great Game ' between Russia and Britain for increasing their respective influences in the Asian region . Curzon afraid of Russia 's growing influence over Tibet later proven unfounded decided to send an 'expedition ' to Lhasa headed by Younghusband . Curzon and Younghusband were very good friends . The expedition was actually a military adventure to assert British influence over Tibet . In this most celebrated event of FEYs life he along with British troops trekked from Sikkim to Lhasa and signed the Treaty of Lhasa which was responsible for Tibet coming under British influence till the Chinese took it over much later on.In the post1904 phase of his life FEY tried unsuccessfully to enter politics . However this physicallyresilient explorer turned into a philosopher after he had a nearfatal accident in Belgium . He also led the ` probably ' unsuccessful attempts over Mt . Everest in the early1920s ` probably ' because till date the mystery over whether George Mallory did reach the summit in 1924 before perishing to his death remains unresolved.The author also discusses in detail FEYs relationship with his wife Helen and daughter Eileen . PF also uncovers an affair FEY had in the twilight of his life with Lady Madeline Lees.The book is also interspersed with details of how the author Patrick French retraces Younghusband 's steps . In true ` living in his shoes ' style the author traces the travels exploits of FEY . PF travels to Dharamshala China Gobi Desert and Sikkim to get a feel of Younghusband 's travels . The research done by French on events of more than hundred years ago is commendable and extremely detailed . He even details the number 67 and type of shirts FEY took with him on his 1904 expedition ! Patrick French has also recently written ` Liberty or Death ' which is a lucid and wellresearched account of the Indian Freedom struggle . ",3
"This book is an excellent achievement by a young British writer . Patrick French has meticulously researched all aspects of the life of this enigmatic 'empire builder'.In the earlier stages of his life Francis Younghusband was desparately trying to gain fame and get his name into the annals of British imperialism . In a way time was running out for the era of great explorations was coming to an end . Therefore the young officer set his eyes on the last frontier Central Asia.Very soon Younghusband was caught up in the hikestake 'Great Game ' the competition between Britain and Russia for control over the enormous expanses of inner Asia . Both states considered this region as vital for its strategic interests . The British feared that control of Turkestan and Tibet would bring the Russians too close to the mountain ranges separating India from the rest of Asia . The Russians in turn considered the steppes and deserts of Central Asia as a buffer zone between its Far Eastern territories and Britishruled South Asia.Younghusband 's travel experiences through the Himalayas Karakorum Hindu Kush and Pamir mountains would turn out to be essential for the formation of his laterday personality and activities . By temperament Younghusband fits into that strange category of the late Victorian soldieradventurer with a spiritual bend . Just like General Charles 'Chinese ' Gordon and T.E . Lawrence of Arabia he paired a love for action with unmistakable spiritual inclinations.After his military and administrative career in the British India service had come to an end Francis Younghusband started a new mission in life . He became involved in a myriad of organizations concerned with interreligious dialogue and the pursuit of world peace . Although along the lines he maintained a vivid interest in all 'things Asian ' and was deeply involved with the first Mount Everest Expeditions.French has been extremely thorough in investigating this second career of Francis Younghusband pursuing all kinds of vague leads and intent on turning over the last stone . Patiently sifting through years of correspondence and personal journals he pieces together a very detailed picture of Younghusband 's later life and relationships with the people around him.French 's five year involvement with the life of Francs Younghusband was nothing short of an obsession with the writer being determined to get into the head of his subject . The result is one of the best and most entertaining biographies I have ever read . ",4
"Well this story was a surprise . Younghusband was interesting for maybe 15 minutes . Like many short men full of their own selfimportance . I was not impressed with his noxious disasters and impetuousity which adversely affected thousands . His latter personal life was also mediocre in the extreme . Perhaps he had more than a touch of senility and banality . ",2
"Patrick French 's biography of Francis Younghusband ` the last great imperial adventurer ' is beautifully written insightful and above all humane . I say humane because at first glance Younghusband could easily be ridiculed in his youth for a reckless jingoism that cost lives and embarrassed the British government and in his later years for a brand of religious mysticism that was well bordering on insane . It is a tribute to French 's understanding of his subject that he digs beneath these criticisms to bring us a deeply satisfying portrait of a surprisingly complex man.Frank Younghusband 's most pressing claim on history was that he led the British expedition into Tibet in 1904 even at the time seen as being based on a flimsy pretext of stopping Russia from gaining control of central Asia . Some 2000 Tibetans were killed as the British force made its way into Lhasa . Younghusband forced a treaty on the 13th Dalai Lama pledging loyalty to the British empire . The Government in London found this deeply embarrassing and almost immediately repudiated the treaty . Younghusband himself was convinced of the threat Russia presented to British interests in India and central Asia.But while the expedition created popularity and profile in England it finished any chances of a senior career with the civil service . Younghusband served in India in a number of middleranking posts and wrote books about Tibet and his earlier exploits as an explorer in central Asia . In 1906 he played a bit part in the Jamison raid in South Africa in the pay of The Times . Most importantly Younghusband thought about spirituality . Literally following a mountain top revelation in Tibet he increasingly devoted his life to promoting a form of allembracing spirituality which led in its silliest form to speculations about aliens living on a planet called Altair . His later years were devoted to boosting this form of spirituality by establishing popular movements in England lecturing widely including in the US running the Royal Geographic Society and supporting Indian independence.All of which one could easily ridicule . But French brings life to his subject and a subtlety of understanding which makes the book absolutely engrossing . One reason is that Younghusband was a prolific letter writer the India Office Library contains 600 bulging boxes containing his papers . Through these we see into the private mental world of Francis his arid and rather sad marriage to Helen and the relationship in his very last years with Madeline Lees truly the love of his life . These insights allow French to paint a much deeper and satisfying portrayal of a complex man a person of his time and place but also a complete iconoclast some one who pushed against the establishment for most of his life . Remarkably this is Patrick French 's first book written in his midtwenties . He is a natural a gifted writer with a fine sense of judgement . No sentence rings out of tune in the whole book . In short Younghusband is worth every one of its five stars . If the publishers have any sense they will issue a reprint soon . If not readers should do everything they can to somehow find a copy of this wonderful biography . ",4
"This is a worthy effort by a very able biographer . But alas I found the subject Francis Younghusband less than compelling . As Younghusband 's life went on he seeemed like his biography to get duller and duller . The details of his life in the Indian subcontinent and the Himalayas are superbly rendered and anyone interested in The Great Game Tibet or India during the British Raj MUST read this book . For Younghusband was a major player in those events . The author also vividly conveys Britain 's colonial environment of the time . But for me as Younghusband entered the more mystical period of his life he revealed himself as a dilettante . I think he just did n't know what to do with himself and just puttered around for the rest of his life . He was a very complex and conflicted man envious I believe of his more notable friends and associates . French paints a nice picture of this man and his times . But in candor beyond his Tibet adventures he was n't all that fascinating a character . However at the end of the day this is a book many will find worthwhile . ",3
"I must admit I do n't consider this the best book on the AllAmerican Girls Professional Baseball League When Women Played Hardball gets the nod but Girls of Summer is probably the best strightup history of the AAGBPL.While When Women Played Hardball is a very personal book that does a better job of giving you the inside story of the AAGPBL via the league championship series from one season in the early 50 's Girls of Summer takes a more clinical approach from a beginningtoend perspective . You do n't get to know the players as well but you understand the league better . It 's very wellwritten does n't linger too long on any one topic and you feel you 've learned something when you 're done reading it . If you liked watching A League of Their Own you 'll like thisand there 'll be no doubt who Madonna 's character was fashioned after . If anything AllTheWay May is tame in comparison.There have been other somewhat similar books published on the AAGPBL but this is the best history . I 'd recommend reading Girls of Summer first then try When Women Played Hardball if you want something a little more indepth and characterdriven so to speak . ",3
"Loved the way the This is a must read if you love baseball.Girls clicked.Wish that they still played.This is the second time i read this book . ",4
"Good read . Not 5 stars because for all that it is a good read I felt like it jumped around a bit trying to cover the whole league . This made it difficult to stay engaged . But I did enjoy it ",3
"The All American Girls Professional Baseball League had a six year run of success starting in 1943 . Lois Browne does n't get bogged down in stats and micro detail but does an excellent job of describing what it was like to play in the league . Women had very few opportunities in the work force back then and though their pay was far below the Major League men it was more than women usually made elsewhere . My only criticism is that perhaps the book could be a little longer . Still it is one I highly recommend . These women did help pave the way for future women 's sports . ",3
"Like probably a lot of people I picked up this book when I saw it offered inexpensively for Kindle because I had seen the 1992 movie A League of Their Own a couple of times and was curious about the reallife events that inspired that film . I know there are several books on the topic of the AllAmerican Girls Baseball League and maybe there are ones that are better but this one held my interest and did a very adequate job of filling in the background . ",3
"Mexico The Beautiful Cookbook contains what it claims beautiful MEXICAN recipes which are traditional therefore not owned by anyone and like all traditional recipes vary from family to family cooking to cooking . The book is beautifully illustrated and easy to follow . I have used the book over and over and given it as a gift to numerous friends all over the world who all treasure it . Mrs Palazuelos reputation is due to high standards and extremely hard work and with very good reason is considered Mexico 's number 1 caterer and now her equally talented son has just opened a hit restaurant of MexThai fusion cuisine unique in Mexico . ",4
"This cookbook is truly a worthwhile purchase . Yes the pictures are nice and there are some good informative paragraphs about the history of the food and regions where the food was influenced by . The the value of this book is in the recipes . The recipes are very authentic to Mexico . Such that some of the ingredients can be hard to find here in the United States.The favors are restaurant quality . Good presentation and the end of the book has techniques and advice on food preparation before you engage in the actual creation of the meals . Every base is covered so I give this book a full recommendation . It 's good enough that I am now curious about the other books in the series . ",4
"This is much more than a cookbook and rightly deserves it 's title . Many people associate Mexican cooking with tamales tacos and burritos which is no surprise as many of the Mexican restaurants in the US limit their menus to such items . This book goes beyond what Americans consider traditional Mexican cooking and highlights many of the recipes derived from their Spanish ancestors executed with local ingredients.This oversized book is separated into regions and includes recipes as well as detailed information on the country . There is an extensive chapter on seafood including some excellent recipes which should n't come as a surprise since Mexico boasts a 6000 mile coastline . Extensive photography is also included in this book making it a suitable for anybody . If you can find a spot for it on your bookshelve buy this book ! ",4
"I 'm from Mexico and my wife is not we recently got this book after a trip there where she fell in love with the cuisine . The book contains authentic recipes many resembling my abuela 's cooking and are accessible to anyone who understands English . Beautiful pictures are the icing on the cake . Enjoy it as much as we have . Buen provecho ! ",4
"If you are to buy only one Mexican cookbook this is the one . It features a fantastic array of authentic recipes none of them have been adapted to suit the American taste awesome pictures and a plethora of cultural information linked to each recipe.I got raving reviews everytime I prepared a recipe featured in this book from American and Hispanic friends alike . This is a real treasure worth every cent of its price . ",4
"This book is a classic of Mexican Cuisine . It 's not as analretentive as Diana Kennedy and more appealing than Rick Bayless . The recipes are truly authentic and I have lived in Mexico for many years researching the cuisines of Mexico . This book contains the majority of the most common dishes cooked in homes in Mexico and a great deal of the alta cocina works as well . I have made 75 % of the dishes in this book and have served them to Mexican friends to rave reviews . This is the real thing . Marilyn Tausend collaborated in this book and it shows . She is an unsung hero of Mexican Cooking . There are others better known but few that can take a recipe and make it easy to follow yet as authentic as is possible with ingredients available in the US . If you want to cook like a real Mexican chef get this book ! ",4
"This fabulous book is not only a visual piece of art but the recipes are incredible . Susanna Palazuelos traveled extensively through her home country of Mexico and has put together a cook book like no other . A true masterpiece . ",4
"Mexico The Beautiful Cookbook not only is a wonderful cookbook filled with authentic recipes but also a gorgeous coffee table book showing the beautiful country of Mexico.I received this book as a gift for my birthday several years ago . I was very excited as I am very interested in other cultures languages and food . I was even more thrilled when my husband 's stepmother Mexican descent told me that she had n't seen these recipes since her grandmother made them when she was a little girl ! Each recipe is easytofollow . There is also a guide in the back describing unusual ingredients . With some thought you can make suitable substitutions for those ingredients . If not the book will have you pining to make that jump for a vacation to Mexico ! Mexican food lovers will love this book . ",3
"I had many Mexican students in my ESL classes and my boyfriend is Mexican . I have an extensive Mexican cookbook collection personally collected recipes and this is the book I go to over and over . The recipes are pertty easy for anyone who likes real home cooking you may need to go to a Mexican store to find the banana leavesepazotechilis etc . called for . But this food is like being invited to eat with a Mexican family.It has a wonderful variety ofcommon Mexican cooking methods and dishes . And what it calls regional are authentic for example when I visited Veracruz I was served fish soup by different families and was a little upset I never got the recipes this book pretty well duplicated the experience for me . The recipes are 100 % authentic you will not be disappointed . I have the softcover version and am going to buy the hardcover just to keep out for the pictures and keep my softcover for using in the kitchen . It 's a good cookbook whether you are just starting out or are looking for something a little different for your Mexican repetoir . I HIGHLY recommend this cookbook ! ! ! ",4
"Really lovely book not what I was looking for but really beautifully written with gorgeous pictures . A cup of tea a rainy afternoon and my cozy chair will add to this delightful book . ",4
"The book is large 10.5x14.5 and is fully illustrated and worth every penny . The illustrations are not stepbystep but are large images that show the finished product . I learned more from studying the final dish images in large format than from all the other Mexican cook books I have and I have more cookbooks than I need . The recipes cover the simplest to the more complicated . I like the simpler ones . I have many of the best books from other authors but they are text text text . This one makes me want to cook which I am going to do right now ! ",4
"This book is beautiful and packed with appealing recipes . The quality of the paper the vivid photography and the engaging travel writing combine to make this more than just a book of recipes . It 's a book you 'll pull out and thumb through while you think about where you want to go in Mexico . ",3
"I knew this book was older went I bought it but I must say I do n't feel inspired to try any of these recipes . Mexican food has come a long way in the states . Nothing new here . Pictures are n't even that great . ",2
"Of hundreds of cookbooks that claim to include Mexican dishes this is the only one that completely holds to original regional and traditional dishes without adding any modern variations . It has endured in my kitchen for 40 years and remains as the singular reliable reference for Mexican recipes . The photography is excellent and it is only too bad that it is no longer in publication . I have bought them as presents for one or two very special cocineras . ",4
"As my husband and I have a predelection for fine cuisine and having studied with a few world 's renounced chefs and aficionados of Mexican Cuisine I guarantee this cookbook 's recipes will delight even the most fastidious palate . The easytofollow recipes are ever bit as appetizing and appealing they appear in the exquisite photographs . Even a novice cook will look like pro with the savoirfaire of authentic Mexican cuisine . I strongly recommend this book for giftgiving . I actually own a copy and use it . ",4
"I have lived away from Mexico for a while and i was thrilled when i finally bought a new copy of this cookbook that my mother and nanny go back to when they need a specific mexican recipe.Thank god there is a translated version so you can not go wrong when buying ingredients here in the US ! ",4
"This is the most authentic and beautiful mexican cookbook that I have ever found . The recipes are full of flavor and the pictures are Muy bonito . ",4
"Overall an excellent overview of anarchism that is well worth reading . Glad I bought it and enjoyed reading it.However at times the author goes from chronicling the views of individual anarchists and opponents to coming down on one side or another of a debate . This itself would be useful except the author seems to give short shrift to views he does n't share.For example take Murray Bookchin 's criticisms of deep ecology . Marshall simply treats Bookchin 's criticisms as untenable and treats Bookchin 's disagreements with the deep ecologists as an example of how Bookchin laments our alienation from nature but he would still appear to be a victim of the process.Perhaps if the subtitle of Demanding the Impossible had been An Evaluation and Critique of Anarchism rather than A History of Anarchism this would n't have been so jarring but it left me wondering as someone not overly familiar with anarchist thinking and debates how much of his history is colored by his own personal views on what is and is not anarchism proper . ",2
"Peter Marshall 's Demanding the Impossible A History of Anarchism has all the earmarks of a scholarly but eminently readable tour de force . It 's comprehensive objective well sourced and indexed and frequently updated . It has a large and helpful select bibliography . The book covers all the major and forgive the term minor anarchists well . It 's particularly adept at showing the precursors of anarchism as well as anarchism 's close philosophical relatives . All the internal and external controversies and criticisms regarding anarchism are covered as well as anarchism 's replies . The book covers the history of anarchism in action and in thought . Although the book is a daunting 705 pages printed in a font a tad too small for aging eyes the book is a page turner . With an admirable scrupulousness Marshall largely does n't interject his affiliations until the very end in the epilogue and even then he does so minimally.This will be a book that I consult frequently . I can not recommend it highly enough . ",4
"I have the paperback edition published in 2008 by PM Press . While I am more than sympathetic that it was printed by the Employee Owners of ThomsonShore in Dexter Michigan I have to say that the point size of the text is making my life miserable . I try to keep my mind on the ideas expressed on the pages but the tiny type size bothers me a great deal . In addition on some lines the point size is larger than others and some entire pages are a tad blurry . I do n't know if I have a copy from a bad print run or what but it is really annoying and I do n't think that I 'll be able to finish the book . The point size appears to be 8 and quoted text is 6 so it is quite small . I have 2020 corrected vision but this is asking too much . I may inquire of the publisher . I would n't recommend buying this particular edition if there is a hardcover edition with larger type size I 'd go with that edition . I 'm giving the book a single star simply because of its readability . Perhaps that is not fair but it is the only way I know of to draw attention to the serious defect of this edition . ",0
"My edition of Demanding the Impossible was published in 1992 by HarperCollins Publishers . On p.561 Marshall writes thatDavid Friedman sees such agencies as both brokers of mini social contracts and producers of 'laws ' which conform to the market demand for rules to regulate commerce . Each person would be free to subscribe to a protective association of his choice since 'Protection from coercion is an economic good . ' Apart from adumbrating The Machinery of Freedom 1973 Friedman has popularized Hayek 's defense of capitalism as the best antidote to the serfdom of collectivism in books with such selfexplanatory titles as Capitalism and Freedom 1962 and Free to Choose 1979.The true author of Capitalism and Freedom and Free to Choose is of course Milton Friedman David Friedman 's nonanarchist father . Milton Friedman is not mentioned in the two preceding pages of the chapter and in any case Friedman clearly is meant to refer to David Friedman . Nor is Milton Friedman in the index or bibliography of the book although at least Milton Friedman 's books are omitted from the bibliography rather than attributed to David Friedman 's authorship a second time.This error is so egregious that the reader can only conclude that Peter Marshall presumes to write about books that he has never even seen the cover of much less read . Whether Marshall corrected it in a subsequent edition or whether the error was simply corrected by the transcriber of the widely available Internet exerpt I do not know . But even if the correction was Marshall 's for this kind of error to have made it into a published book speaks volumes.On the same page Marshall writes thatThe writings of Ayn Rand a refugee from the Soviet Union best represent the intellectual background to the new rightwing libertarianism in the United States . In her The Virtue of Selfishness A New Concept of Egoism 1964 she attempted a philosophical defence of egoism while in her novels she portrayed a superior individual fighting the forces of collectivism particularly in the form of the State . Her superior individual driven by a Nietzschean will to power appears in the guise of a capitalist entrepreneur who is presented as the source of all wealth and the creator of all progress . Rand claimed that she had a direct knowledge of objective reality and her 'Objectivist ' movement had a considerable vogue in the sixties . Like most anarchocapitalists she is convinced of the truth of her own views which to others appear mere dogma.And in my edition the paragraph immediately ends . The next paragraph begins Amongst anarchocapitalist apologists the economist Murray Rothbard is probably the most aware of the anarchist tradition.Again this outrageous error has been corrected in the Internet excerpt of Demanding the Impossible . But it provides additional proof that Peter Marshall presumes to write about books and authors that he has never read . Ayn Rand 's attack on anarchocapitalism in The Nature of Government one essay in her The Virtue of Selfishness is so clear that Marshall could only make this error by failing to have even read the author whose views he is describing.These are only two of Marshall 's numerous factual errors which demonstrate a shocking lack of basic standards of scholarship . After all a book is not a Usenet posting one is supposed to spend months or years in study factchecking rewriting and so on.Some similar errors appear in Ulrike Heider 's Anarchism Left Right and Green . Once again there are errors so gross that the only possible explanation is that Heider presumes to write about books she has never read.A few examples of her poor scholarshipMenger is considered the founder of the Austrian School of Economics which continued to refine its theory of monetary value until the middle of the 20th century . The most prominent descendent of this school of thought is is monetarist Milton Friedman the economic authority for such politicians as Richard Nixon Ronald Reagan Margaret Thatcher and others . Anarchism Left Right and Green p.100.Milton Friedman is not and never has had any affiliation with the Austrian School . In fact he is the most famous member of the rival Chicago School which even a minimal study of the differences between freemarket economists would have revealed.If it were n't for their obsession with work and their misanthropic outlook one might mistake Rand 's heroes for leftwing bohemians . They are always AngloSaxon Americans . ibid p.105Francisco d'Anconia one of the four major heroic characters in Ayn Rand 's Atlas Shrugged is of South American nationality.Roark 's rival the mediocre architect Peter KeatonibidThe character 's name is in fact Peter Keating . While the error is trivial it does indicate that Heider sees no need to get the basic facts straight when she discusses a book . The Fountainhead is divided into four sections each named for one major character Peter Keating is the title of the first section . It would be very hard to miss unless you never read the book or wrote from memory years afterwards.Reversing her previous confusion about the Austrian vs. the Chicago schools of economics Heider appears to attribute monetarist policy prescriptions to Rothbard The monetarist road out of such misery must lead through a depression the 'painful but necessary process by which the free market rids itself of the excesses and errors of the boom . ' quotation Rothbard 's Rothbard recommends that the government do the exact opposite of what the Keynesians suggest it should simply abandon its policy of inflation by giving the free market reign and by reinstating the gold standard . ibid p.131.Again Rothbard spent the better part of his academic career attacking monetarism and the Chicago school of economics with which monetarism is associated.I have been informed by admirers of Murray Bookchin that Heider 's work contains similar gross errors about ecoanarchism . Since this is not my field of expertise I do not presume to point them out but it would not surprise me.It is one thing to violently disagree with an author and to express one 's disagreement in a book . It is another matter entirely to get basic facts wrong so wrong in fact that it casts doubt on whether the author read the books he or she presumes to write about . ",0
"Seven hundred pages of fine print and another hundred of footnotes in 2010 's revised edition narrate thousands of years over which people have longed for the right to make their own decisions live as best they choose among each others ' mutual assistance and communal support and to conduct their livelihoods and relationships as they please free of coercion topdown dominance or imposed government or creed . If leaders are chosen if organizations are established then these are entered freely and exited at will.This sums up anarchism 's principled versions . It seems from early on philosophers priests bosses legislators politicians and generals all have feared such a movement . Peter Marshall 's immense survey shows the results parading steadily the greatest names in the centuries who 've tried to make theory into practice . The Introduction begins with great quotes from some of its exponents and prefaces in Part I anarchism as it is in theory . While the river of anarchy changes with each version the essence of freedom attracts a few each generation to plunge into what by the heady rhetoric recurring appear inviting waters of liberation personally and socially . For society for most advocates remains even if the State withers away . The former is sought freely the latter is n't chosen . Society and the State and Freedom and Equality articulate this in Marshall 's introduction.In Part II the forerunners of anarchism Taoism and Buddhism surprisingly show how ancient this impulse is . Feared by Plato if somewhat anticipated by the preSocratic Greeks its impulses survived into early and medieval Christianity among such as dissenters heretics guilds and rebels against Romeand against Luther tellingly . By the English Revolution we see the short rise of Levellers and Diggers and the brief establishment of Gerard Winstanley 's communeand then his aboutface later in life as he turned away from his earlier rebellious stance . Inconsistency as Marshall patiently notes characterizes many who in the French Renaissance and Enlightenment and also as with Burke in the British Enlightenment toyed with models for radical change without truly supporting them.By Part III French German British and American libertarians emerge . Not quite anarchist for the term was not yet in common usage but such as Tom Paine presage if imperfectly for many sought the protection of a Jeffersonian State however limited along a federalist or decentralized system the dreams of the later 18th century as revolution sparked the possibility for change and no more kings . Partial anarchists as it were abound among Rousseau Emerson Swift Mill Morris or Fourier et al.In Part IV we finally reach the heart of the book . Classic anarchist thinkers begin with the passionate example of William Godwin the lover of order . Next comes the nearNietzschian Max Stirner the conscious egoist who as many would angered Marx . PierreJoseph Proudhon 's intricate theories reveal the philosopher of poverty . Two Russians pair off Michael Bakunin as the fanatic of freedom full of inconsistencies as many theorists seem to be in this century . Peter Kropotkin the revolutionary evolutionist tries to tame the theories with a study of geography and science to fit anarchism within a natural determinism akin to many worldchanging paradigms of the nineteenth century . So does on a smaller scale the fierce Elise & # 769e Reclus the geographer of liberty . For all but Reclus in this long part Marshall offers a grand sweep of their life and thought before entering topics such as their ethical views political attitudes thoughts on the State or human nature to clarify particular ideas in depth.The twentieth century 's Errico Malatesta the electrician of revolution sparks a new current the energy of the will not of nature as a way to transform human drives towards peaceful again a contentious point among many as the fall of the Paris Commune and the rise of WWI split many goals . Marshall seems to sympathize with those who reject war or violence as these are coercive means to achieve the end of the end of class antagonism national boundaries and capitalist rule.Leo Tolstoy the count of peace gets sympathetic treatment and various American individualists and antiState Communists such as Lysander Spooner who finally takes on a question I 'd been waiting for ever since I read Locke to ask who signed us up to the social contract established by the consent of the governed centuries ago ? Voltairine de Cleyre Benjamin Tucker and Alexander Berkman but they 're all skimmed over too hastily in admittedly a very lengthy book as it is . Sasha B 's companionEmma Goldman as the most dangerous woman earns a brisk lively study as Marshall scans her ambiguous position between understanding and condoning the use of violence to achieve liberation.German Communists notably the brave martyr to the cause in the aftermath of 1919 's failed Munich soviet Gustav Landauer follow suit and then Mohandas Gandhi who counters brutality as the gentle revolutionary a strength of Marshall 's treatment is that he firmly if gently calls out Gandhi for devolving from leader to guru with a cult of personality or chides in part V Anarchism in action those in France Italy and Spain who capitulated to compromise as with the CNTFAI and so lost the momentum of the social revolution during Spain 's war against fascismand Stalinism . Still then as now some accommodation with party politics appears inevitable for many radicals to advance situations amenable to elusive goals of autonomy and mutual aid beyond unions or regions.Russia and the Ukraine with Makhno 's early attempt similar to Spain 's at a sustained anarchist society during war offer cautionary tales as do repeated situations in Northern Europe the United States and especially Latin America when attempts at progress were stymied by unions violence agitation and crackdowns . Mexico and Cuba repeat the same story as the USSR and Spain where antistatist traditions were lured or pressed into capitulation by crafty cadres led by brutal despots.While these chapters inevitably and rather dully in parts tell some of the same narrative the earlier chapters on leading anarchists had depending on the nation glimpses at such movements as French Situationists British punks American Wobblies and German agitators show how the 20c managed in a few nations to survive its heyday 18801930 and a few progressives lived long enough to see the 1960s and inspire younger activists . The downside of this in India where the Sarvodaya movement was coopted by a very clever politician who used it for his own party advancement is also telling.After a hasty look at Asia many regions get a rapid glance and this tends to be namesanddates and unionsfullofinitials types of coverage of uneven interest compared to earlier biographical narrative Marshall shifts in part VI to modern anarchism with the New Left and the counterculture . This lively section looks at Situationists Kabouters Provos and Greens along with anarchists themselves as by the 1960s a loose collective rather than unions or platforms drives many experiments . One of these concocted on the New Right as anarchocapitalism merits blunt critique.Modern libertarians and anarchists gain briefer mention Murray Bookchin and his ecology of freedom meets an indepth challenge as Marshall takes on this former and then future Marxist who bridled at the lifestyle rather than social anarchists as insufficiently committed . Marshall 's passion emerges here and makes this part of the book lively and spirited . Similarly his reprise as Part VII of the book 's contents as he reviews the big thinkers who established the legacy of anarchism its ends and means and the relevance of anarchism along with an epilogue shows how difficult it is for the author to let go of this vast topic . He examines the strengths and weaknesses he tackles the applicability of this ideal to our postscarcity economy after the heady utopian dreams of the 60s have given way to environmental damage job loss unfettered capitalism and a commodity culture.Again in the last sections there is some repetition and certain material gets included a third time for overlap of thinkers regions and recent events may be inevitable . A history of a big idea causes the weight of a big book . But anyone who 's read shorter works such as Colin Ward 's Anarchy A Very Short Introduction or the newer A Living Spirit of Revolt by Ziga Vodovnik both reviewed by me in May 2014 here will welcome Marshall.P.S . This massive work might be read on a Kindle so notetaking can be eased . As the print copy and bulk necessitate a very small font readers may prefer a dual version . I found the index and notes easier to consult in book fashion but the highlighting made an ebook appealing . A few typos remained and the margins of a Kindle version meant that 40 % of the text was endmaterial but the portability of this meant I could finally finish what I 'd been making my way through in print slowly ",3
"Although the pioneering work of anarchist history was Woodcock 's relatively tiny volume Anarchism Marshall demonstrates with this revision that the torch has passed from Woodcock to him . What is most satisfying in this edition is that although Marshall 's sympathies are unambiguously anarchist he manages to offer a very balanced clear objective helpful historical account combined with admirably critical insights . Written in 1991 it has an added value for being reasonably recent as previous scholarship on the subject is by now mostly dated . Demanding the Impossible is superior also because of its sheer bulk 700+ informationpacked pages . Not merely confining himself to looking at anarchism as an ideology Marshall spans a period starting from Buddhism and Taoism to ancient Greece and Christianity up to the present and offers a rich and powerful exposition of these cultural phenomena and the ways in which they prefigure anarchistic ideas to form a manystreamed river of anarchy . In addition there are explorations of modern anarchism in action in Russia and the Ukraine Asia Northern Europe and the United States among many other countries across the globe . Other chapters include surveys and critiques of the major classical anarchist thinkers Mikhail Bakunin Count Leo Tolstoy Max Stirner William Godwin PierreJoseph Proudhon Prince Kropotkin as well as examinations of libertarian movements and thinkers allied to anarchism such as Wilhelm von Humboldt Nietzsche J.S . Mill Herbert Spencer the existentialists Sartre and Camus The New Left the hippy Counterculture Right Libertarianism the work of Michel Foucault and so forth . Extremely accessible account overall . ",4
"On p. 442 Marshall writes Georges Sorel inspired by by Proudhon and the syndicalists maintained in his Reflections on Violence 1908 that class war invigorates society . He opposed 'bourgeois force ' arguing that the latter has a purifying effect that enables people to take possession of themselves . The general strike moreover is of value as a 'social myth ' an article of faith which inspires the workers in their struggle . For Sorel social myths are important since they are 'not descriptions of things but expression of a determination to act ' . Although he later influenced Lenin Mussolini and Action Franaise he did not object to acknowledging himself an anarchist since 'Parliamentary Socialism professes a contempt for morality ' and the new ethic of the producers.Mr Marshall as a historian of anarchism seems to share their indifference to facts.Sorel did not influence Lenin . Lenin called Sorel ` the wellknown advocate of confusion ' . The Marxist historian of philosophy George Lukacs referred to Sorel 's ` totally insubstantial theory of myth ' . So it is a bit of a stretch for Marshall to write that Lenin was influenced by Sorel.This mistake is typical of this unreliable book . It is careless of the facts even about its subject and still more unreliable about any other politics . ",0
"For those of us who marveled at the manner in which the combined Allies created and conducted the trials of the German hierarchy at Nuremberg successfully demonstrating to the world the fashion in which the British French American and Russian allies could cooperate and compromise sufficiently to prosecute some of the most murderous of the motley crew comprising the Nazi regime the stunning failures of our similar attempts to settle the issues surrounding the disposition of the Japanese war criminals was a bitterly disappointing revelation.Indeed by the time the collected Allies gathered to consider the fate of the Japanese offenders the world had changed and the welter of economic social and geopolitical concerns that had united the Allies now served to separate them . As a result the efforts to render anything approaching objective justice to the often barbaric behavior of high ranking Japanese officials were doomed from the inception.Moreover the relative lag in time between the war 's cessation and the first beginnings of serious efforts to enact a tribunal served to work against justice by making it more difficult to locate and secure evidence much of which had been destroyed in the final stages of the war . As mentioned above the lack of international cooperation and a variety of differences in terms of perceived national interests also contributed to a seeming inability to move forward on any but a few of the defendants in the first two years following the end of hostilities in August 1945.As the author reveals the Japanese war crimes trials were troubled from beginning to end in terms of relative respect loss of critical evidence insufficient staff and resources available and an inhospitable cultural atmosphere which tended to stifle and limit the range of punishments unnecessarily . Still the author who had participated as a news correspondent at the trials skillfully mines both his own recollections and the range of materials he had at his disposal including memoirs transcripts and interviews to meaningfully reconstruct a sometimes riveting account of this historic event . This is an interesting book and one I would not hesitate to recommend . Enjoy ! ",3
"If you are curious about what or how the Japanese War Crimes Trial went down this book is for you . The writer is not interested in merely stating the facts or telling what happened but takes the reader through the trial from start to finish high lighting stories and issues that other writers even those authors who were directly involved in the trial itself did n't know or bother to find out . This book is worth the time and I highly recommend it . ",4
"Everyone knows the story of the Nuremberg Trials but today the story of the Tokyo Trials is largely forgotten outside of Japan . The Allies who prosecuted the Pacific War held trials of Japan 's war leaders on the same legal basis as those of the Nazis following the end of WWII . This book written by a reporter who was present during the proceedings looks at international law and the violations of it while Japan attempted to take over Asia . Also the Japanese government 's involvment in narcotics trafficing and both largescale and smallscale atrocities directed at the civilian populations and POWs was addressed during the trials.While imperfect the trials not only established the criminal behavior of Japan 's government but determined the punishment of key leaders involved . The war guilt of Emperor Hirohito was never addressed or addressed only obliquely for political reasons while seven men were hanged for war crimes.A good read with some photos . ",3
"I have been a student of the Holocaust since before I was a teenager . A major focus of my interest was the Nuremberg Trials in which the surviving Nazi big wigs were brought to justice in an extensive judicial review of the high crimes of Nazi Germany . The world was focussed on the trials and an Academy Awardwinning feature film was made about them as well . When I read a review of The Other Nurembeg The Untold Story of the Tokyo War Crimes Trials it may have been the first I knew that there actually was such an inquest . I never came across it at book stores so I sought it out on Amazon.com to find out just what the trials were all about.These trials were somewhat different from their German counterpart . One difference was the control that General MacArthur held over the creation and to a small extent control of the trials . There were also a lot more countries represented on the Bench . Instead of the Big Four in Europe the Americans English and Chinese were joined by jurists from Australia the Soviet Union The Netherlands The Philipines India and France . The chief judge was an Australian and the chief prosecutor was an American . The accused however were all Japanese.There were a variety of issues involved such as the Rape of Nanking the forced labor the surprize attack on Pearl Harbor the killing of POW 's and shooting survivors of torpedoed ships the mass murders in China The Philipines and elsewhere . The issue of waging an agressive war was also an issue which was worked over and defined.The genesis of the tribunal and the prosecution of the trials are spelled out well in Arnold Brackman 's researched recollection as a journalist covering the trials at the time . Some topics and crimes may seem to be covered in less detail that the reader may prefer . However Brackman 's description of the tens of thousands of pages of evidence and testimony gives us an overall aprreciation of the author 's ability to summerize the major points of the trials . There are a lot of incidents referred to that may have escaped the attention of many readers . The initial outbreak of the invasion in China was an event known as the Mukden Incident which was news to me . At times the vollume of brutality left the author acknowledging that there was a lot more than he or the tribunal had time to cover.Brackman had a good sense of the personalities and rivalries involved in the judges and lawyers working in the trials . He also was rather defensive at times regarding that variety of opinions back home about the War and its ' causes . He is also willing to speak frankly about some of the merits of the defense of the accused . For example he points out that the Japanes army had liberated a number of European colonies in Asia . However Brackman also points out that the Japanese were more brutal to their Asian captives than they were to the European ones.At times the book seems more oriented to a legal focus rather than an historic one but this is afterall about a trial rather than a battle . In the end the trial having lasted well past what was expected came to an end with seven executions and a number of lengthy prison sentences of which most ended with parole in the mid1950's.The Tokyo trials were not the focus of the world like their Nuremberg counterpart . However they were an important reminder that even in war there are standards of decency . The evidence that we do get reminds us of the reason for the trial . The Other Nuremberg like the trials themselves is valuable for the closure that it brings to the end of a brutally waged war of agression . ",3
"Arnold as a journalist wrote this report for all readers who want the story without too much legal terms . Of course this is not a book on the full history of Japan waging aggressive wars in Asia with her European axis friends . It presents the facts to prosecute the Class A B C war criminals with only 7 convicted to die by hanging by the international team of judges.However due to international politics it was reported in this bookthe chief puppet responsible for waging aggressive wars breaking peace and waging war against humanity was shielded and other war crime criminals were spared . Some topics were undercovered such as the pursuit of nuclear weapons conducting biological experiment on POWs and kidnapping women as sex slaves . The court focused more on China especially from Mukden Incident September 18 1931 ten years before Pearl Harbor . It quoted Takashi Nagase an English interpreter with the POWs I can tell you that the conditions for the POWs who worked on the bridge were much worse than depicted in that movie The Bridge on the River Kwai p.260 . Many of the war criminals escaped justice and returned to civilian lives afterwards and many still hang on their prewar logic of imperialism and militarism testified by Tojo and company.Different from the Nazi counterpart the convicted and executed war criminals by Tokyo Trial regarded as royal imperial warriors were secretly enshrined Tokyo Yasukuni Shrine with annual homage by officials and soldiers who preach to whitewash distort and deny the court record of Rape of Nanking . Asian countries protest this worship and it caused disputes.The Rape Of NankingUnjust EnrichmentGuests of the Emperor The Secret History of Japan 's Mukden POW CampThis is an important book of history to understand international politics and how it affects the current situation in the Pacific Region and American national policy . ",4
"HARVEY PENICK 'S LITTLE RED BOOK LESSONS AND TEACHINGS FROM A LIFETIME OF GOLF is a must have for any serious golf library . Filled with anecdotes stories and practical golf advice Penick 's book is a forthright enjoyable read . No wonder these lessons had such an impact on the likes of golf greats Ben Crenshaw and Tom Kite both of whom were Penick proteges.Penick 's book also lends a classical look at a classical game . With all that 's going on in the world of golf today the exorbitant salaries conflicts about equipment and vintage courses becoming too short Penick 's book reminds us that once upon a time golf was a genial game instead of a rabid business . Read it and gain some needed perspective on the greatest game in the world.THE HORSEMAN ",4
"This book covers everything you need to know to improve your game . Mr. Pennick 's insights are quick and concise . This is ibe of the best instructional books I have ever read . The only advice I have to give is to take one tip at a time . Pick one thing to work on when you feel you have achieved what Mr. Pennick said then move on to something new . The tips are also sprinkled with tales of yesteryear and legends of the game . It is difficult to read this without wanting to put the book down and try each tip as it comes along I would say read the book once then go back and work on the things that made hte most sense to you.T ",3
"If I could compare this book to a golf swing I would say the setup and approach looked good but the writing fell apart through the impact zone and follow through.There is a lot of praise out there for Harvey Penick and based upon the numerous comments in the book 's forward by the wellknown golfers he mentored I have no doubts that the praise is well warranted . Unfortunately while Penick himself in the book 's introduction sets up his Little Red Book as a lifetime 's masterful compilation of golf wisdom and best kept secrets finally made public the book fails to live up to the author 's own advertising and is a bit disappointing.A fair amount of downtoearth tips techniques and golfing philosophy that Harvey had applied to his students are shared in the book . And if just one of those tips can improve one 's golf game then I would say the book is worth the price . But too often the Little Red Book comes off as an exercise in namedropping and rambling golf anecdotes many of which are not all that interesting nor amusing . It pains me to say that knowing what a revered figure Harvey Penick has been to some in the golfing community but that is just my honest assessment.What also disappointed me about this book was that although Harvey Penick gives a couple of concessions to the virtue of humility there appears to be a somewhat bragadocious quality to the narrative . That would be more excusable if the Little Red Book was in fact packed from cover to cover with the invaluable tips Penick promises in this introductory chapter but that is not the case . Here is a short example of what I am talking aboutIn the chapter titled First Things First Harvey writes about a man who came to his country club seeking out this famous teacher this Penick fellow . The man says if Harvey is such a great teacher perhaps he can give some advice on how to get out of sand traps . Harvey 's response which abruptly ends the brief chapter is something to the effect that it is better not to get into sand traps to begin witha response that is not only rather obvious but neither practically helpful nor particularly clever.That exemplifies too much of the tone of this book which is unfortunate because there are some good downtoearth visualization techniques and other bits of instruction which if solely focused upon would have made this a far better and more useful read . ",2
"Mr. Penick shares a lifetime of golf wisdom in this easy to read and timeless classic . Every golfer should have this book in their library.His humble style and sincere desire that every golfer improve and most importantly have fun make this book helpful for golfers at all levels of playing ability . ",4
"bookmy HUSBANDS personal copyCowriterBud ShrakeAustinTexasHarvey Morrison Penick10231904 to421995 . Book is the 1992 edition.Instant classic88 T I P S175 pagesno photos . This is a SMALL red book.Throughout his love for golf and his loveof teaching shows through . He started outas a caddie at the AustinTx Country Club.He had been teaching for 60 years.My husband who DOES NOT read books LOVESTHIS ONE . Refers to it often . Its timeless.Still good info for 2012.Harvey says to also readMODERN FUNDAMENTALS OF GOLF by Ben Hogan & HOW TO PLAY YOUR BEST GOLF by Tommy Armour.bbp okc ok 62 retired ",4
"It 's a good book but you have to read it more one time to discover in some cases what Harvey is trying to say you . The book has a lot of pearls . ",3
"An interesting mix of story sayings memoir and instruction..only the most ardent golfer or golf instructor could get much out of the instruction but the story sayings and memoirs are good many outstandng.The concept of the Little Red Boook is interesing and alluring to the reader . An interesting mix of information . Well worth the read but it leaves the readerat least this readerwishing it was two books one of instruction one on the other interesting and insightful informaton in the book . ",3
"Harvey Penick was first an amazing person and then an amazing golfer and teacher of all aspects of the game . This is a wonderful book on many levels . ",4
"This book contains many entertaining anecdotes gathered over the course of may decades . Harvey Penick chose to become a teaching golf professional rather than barnstorm the country during those early years of golf tournaments when many professionals were simply glorified hustlers . Eventually Penick became widely respected and many notable players and duffers stopped over to visit him at the practice tee . Over time the wooden shafted golf clubs gave way to titanium steel.I certainly enjoyed the historical perspective that the book provided . Although some golf instruction is included in the book it is more of a nostalgic look backwards to days spent in the Texas sun mowing the lawns and watering the greens . Reading a book like this is not a bad way to spend an afternoon . Harvey Penick had a good life.If you are searching for a serious golf instruction manual however you may want to choose another book . ",3
"I refer back to this book all the timel I enjoy this book helpful tips to improved my golf game . I think any golfer would like this book . ",4
"Good advice . The fact there are short chapters that you can read in any order . If you have a particular problem you can go right to the section about that problem . ",3
"Unfortunately i sold it on amazon kind of wish i still had it as i may at some time go out and play a little golf ",4
"Expected more instructional tips rather than anecdotes.Stil it was enjoyable to read . The game of golf lost a great mentor when he died . ",3
"One of the best teaching books available . Great Humble man that I got to meet . ",4
"I enjoyed the book it had some great tips . But it 's not for a beginner looking for swing fundamentals instead try Ben Hogan 's 5 lessons and David Leadbetter 's 100 % golf . Still worth reading though . ",3
"My PGA instructor recommended I read this book . I had purchased the paper copy over 5 years ago and never got around to reading it . I somehow misplaced it so I purchased the Kindle Version much harder to lose since it is in the Cloud and on the device which turns out to be a much better deal . I can search by text chapter and highlight or take notes which is faster to search.I can understand why modern players and beginners might be frustrated by reading the book as it is n't presented in a format like a magazine with the latest swing tips . Harvey is an oldschool caddie and instructor but the concept of golf and swing fundamentals have not really changed.Harvey has some interesting stories and anecdotes but much of his instruction is solid advice . I found it to differ from a lot of advice offered in books like Golf for Dummies . For instance McCord recommends trying to putt so the ball ends 18 inches past the cup . Harvey recommends having the ball die at the cup to prevent it from overshooting.Overall 55 stars . A classic golf book that comes highly recommended even by my PGA instructor . ",4
"I just got through reading Harvey Penick 's Little Red Book . I enjoyed it so much that I had to apologize about my delay in submitting a positive comment on the seller 's feedback page . But the book was that enjoyable ! I read the book because I was told it is a good example in marketing and business management ideals . I do n't even play golf ! I was able to apply Harvey Penick 's words to attitudes and approaches to life though ! He not only teaches what he has learned about golf during his long rich life but he also teaches a philosophy in how to live one 's life . His methods of evaluating the actions of his students and sharing what he has learned in an effort to improve thier lives is obvious to me . He refuses to use negative impressions in his teachings . Instead he accentuates the positive . He educates by guiding his students instead of teaching them . I love his ability to teach with images parables and metaphors . His chapter First Things First about the golfer who wanted to get out of sand traps is great ! After all the problem is not always what you think . I challenge anyone to read Harvey Penick 's Little Red Book and share with me how they can apply his knowledge to thier business and personal lives . Whether you play golf or not this book is good reading ! ",4
"hard to buy for soninlaw keeps this book handy for rereading chapters . was happy he is enjoying it hope it helps his golf game . ",4
"Interesting little book filled with interesting anecdotes and solid advice for golfers of all levels and abilities ! Do n't miss it ! ",4
"Ben Crenshaw doubled over and openly wept after holing out to win the 1995 Masters tournament . His golf teacher friend and father figure Harvey Penick had passed away shortly before the tourney . Ben felt that Harvey was ` guiding ' him in the final rounds and the emotions finally overtook him . The impact of the moment was very touching but it was n't until I finished Harvey 's Little Red book that I began to understand the poignancy of the connection . The 90yearold Penick had taught Ben since Ben was 7 . The little red book of the title is the notebook journal and freeform diary of Mr. Penick . Compiled from golf observations throughout his life it was only in his waning years that he agreed to allow anyone to see it . What a treat and a privilege it was to read . This is a wonderful piece of literature . Having recently completed Hogan and Armour 's instructional guides this was an excellent follow up . Not nearly as meticulously mechanical and cold as Hogan nor as blandly wandering as Armour Penick 's actual instruction is extremely straightforward in its scope . I also think that the longer one has played golf the greater one appreciates this work . Not written strictly for the beginner as the other two books are Harvey comments not only on instruction and mechanics but also course design tournaments hustlers metaphorical imagery and caddying in the early part of the century . Throughout the book his love of teaching and his immense pride in his pupils continues to carry the theme allowing one to understand the connection he had with his students . Having become extremely weary of the cloying media and corporate anointment of T. Woods reading about golf as seen through Harvey Penick 's eyes was a muchneeded tonic . Highly recommended . ",4
"Harvey Penick wrote his masterpiece with this book a simple common terms way to understand all you ever needed to know about golf . In an age of technical computer lookalike golf swings Harvey Penick wrote a book that the common man can understand.I have used the thoughts and tips from Harvey 's book for over five years now and it has done nothing but help me become a better golfer and student of the game . Harvey 's tips are great not only for amateurs but are used by professionals as well . This book is the bible of golf books a starting point for anyone interested in the game or interested in getting better.I know people who read this book every year getting ready for the golf season and it does nothing but help them with their game . Some of the best parts of this book are when Harvey shares anecdotes from his life which are always filled with humor and applicable to the golf world and life.Harvey Penick was a mad who had integrity and that is why his legacy lives on . This book is highly recommended to golfers and nongolfers who might just catch the golf bug after reading this book . ",4
"Mr. Pennick understood why we hapless idiots play the gemme . His insights are straightforward simple and timeless . You can open this book to any page and find an epiphany . Good stuff . ",4
"The men in my life love golf and love the wisdom Harvey has so eloquently produced in this book ! Enjoy ! ",4
"What a great read this little book is for us golf lovers . But in terms of instruction you may find it a bit thin . Speaking in parables at times the message at the end of each little chapter is not as good as the story . Buy the book for the great read that it is ! ! ! Just do n't expect game altering advice . ",3
"I actually heard about this book during a sermon at church used as an example of simple honest people . I read through the collection of short stories in a matter of two days and passed it on . If you are waiting to get the single most important revelation of your life regolf I can recommend Tom Watson 's Rules of Golf and another Jack Niclaus paperback that I have bought at least 5 times that is probably no longer in print . Tom tells you the history and options on every rule which is invaluable enteratining and more important understandable in English . Jack tells you about strategies on the course which was the single most important book I have ever read for match play situations . Harvey is a nice guy who probably never said a bad word about anyone in his life but was far from the simple guy he is portrayed to be . It was light and amusing and some of the portraits of golfers he taught are pretty neat . But for pure instruction to improve your game there are some great books out there . And it does n't take a lot of room on the shelf ! ",2
"Good stories great tips but I wish there are more illustrations.I like the bucket tip from all of the tips ",2
"Did n't have the type of info I thought would be in it but for the $ $ $ not a bad read . ",2
"In evaluating this book it 's important to note what it is and what it isn't.It is n't a straightforward instructional book . It 's very nonlinear for example the grip is not discussed until page 30 and the stance until page 110 . Instead this is more a book of collected observations about the game its pleasures and pains its pitfalls and secrets for success and its personalities.Another thing it is not a classically wellwritten book . After all Harvey was a golf teacher not an author it appears that to his credit coauthor Shrake allows Harvey 's voice to come through instead of completely rewriting his thoughts . What ultimately results is a slim volume full of both anecdotes and helpful tips I have worked my way out of swing problems many times by going back to the Little Red Book.A complete instructional guide to the game ? No . This is a modest work very appropriate to the quiet and gentle man who taught a U.S. Open champion a Masters champion and hundreds or thousands of lesserknown golfers whose ability and appreciation for the game were enhanced by their having known Harvey Penick . ",4
"Chapters are 1 3 pages . NOT a book about all the details of the golf swing or psychological like Bob Rotella . Just a collection of simple tips that make you a more complete golfer or an outline for how to become better . I like it because its not an elaborate plan or schedule of how to break 80 . Just read the book once in a while and use the tips when you need them . ",4
"Hi the little red book is a true blessing . I 've personally listened to it several times probably 810 in just a few months . It has such incredible golfing tips for us golfers . Harvey was ahead of his time and if I remember correctly this might be the most sold golfing book of all time . I understand why I would buy it again and I highly recommend to anyone . Really awesome gift idea . ",4
"Havey Penick is a legend in the golfing world and sharing his experiences and feelings are a benefit to any and every golfer . ",4
"I 've owned this book for a few years now and like my caption says it never gets old.In this golfer 's book you will find instruction philosophy and history all woven masterfully together in the form of stories . Whether it 's the lengthly section where Harvey gives his thoughts in the grip or the extremely terse paragraph explaining why he never joined the tour Penick uses the right words at the right times.I 've read it several times and often take it with me on long trips . It 's broken into several very short segments sometimes two or three on a page sometimes two or three pages . This means you can always pick it up read a quick snipit and walk away from it.Lastly I 've found that whenever my golf game is struggling I read this book and it always somehow gets back on track . I do n't know if it 's from the lucid instruction or the comforting philosophy but either way this book has become an integral part of my golf regimen . ",4
"One thing mid to high handicappers such as myself notice about better golfers is how much knowledge of and feel for the game they have . This book will increase your knowledege and feel immensely . The result is a better additude toward the game and more confidence which can only result in better scores.There is plenty of technical help as well with chapters on grip the magic move chipping club selection etc . If there 's anything thats bothering your game such as too strong of a grip you may well discover what it is while reading this book . But more than anything you will be a more savvy golfer with a renewed additude.Hit 'em straight ",4
"Harvey Penick 's Little Red Book is the bible of golf and especially golf attitude and self discipline . We have a family golf tourney every year and I give away these little jewels to the closest to the pin and longest drive winners . Great to just play in the car especially as the new golf season begins to reawaken your attitude your stroke and your feeling for the game . Hit them straight . ",4
"This is one of the top3 golf books in my mind . If you have n't read it pick up a copy and enjoy timeless golf advice and musings from one of the greatest teachers ever to pick up a club . ",4
"a very handy and insightful guide on all facets of golf playing . i really enjoyed this fine book which has helped my game drasticaly . hacking no more ",4
"Book was in good shape . Received it very quickly . Gave it as a Christmas present recipient very pleased with it . ",4
"I love the way this book is written & how the instructions are subtle . Harvey had a great way of looking at life ! ",4
"Harvey Penick gave so much to golfers and the game a fact that is well borne out by the touring pros who wrote intros to his Little Red Book Tom Kite Ben Crenshaw Kathy Whitworth Byron Nelson et al . But he can also help those of us who have yet to break 90 his little book of wisdom contains many gems that unlike your typical golfing magazine article wo n't necessarily have you swinging in front of a mirror . Instead they will crawl inside your head and stay with you . And the sweetest and best among them are quite simple Take dead aim . Do n't move your head forward and so on . The game of golf we all know is not simple but it teaches one to be humble like Harvey Penick the legendary golf pro . A new book about another great golf pro Warren Smith includes the story of Ben Crenshaw at Augusta a few days after Harvey died . After winning the Masters Crenshaw broke down his head in his hands and his elbows on his knees an image that is burned in the golf history books . Warren and Harvey were great friends when both were club pros in Texas . ",4
"I 'm always trying to learn more about golf and have read many magazines and articles on the subject . Mr Penick 's approach to teaching is tried and true keeping it simple and uncomplicated . I enjoyed every page . ",4
"Thoroughly enjoyed reading this book . Highly recommed it to anyone with an interest in golf . No step by step instructions just gentle thoughtssuggestions presented in a nonteachy manner . Also recommend the Green Book as well . ",4
"A must have . Great tips on how to improve your golf game . Unlike the ad naseum wave of golf instruction that one can get bogged down in in Golf Magazines and instructional videos this is simple straight forward approaches to improve your game . ",4
"The book arrived on time and in good shape . It was clean and looked new . I did not like the read and did not finish . Good will will get this . ",3
"As most fans of Eleanor Hibbert know she wrote with several psuedonyms . One of them was Jean Plaidy under which she wrote dozens of well researched historical novels mostly about the English monarchy . This book about the infamous French Queen is written in the style of the Jean Plaidy novels . I ca n't understand why it was published under the Victoria Holt psuedonym rather than Jean Plaidy but if you 're a Jean Plaidy fan this is a must read ! ",4
"I read this book many years ago when I was 13 . At the time I was into much younger books for younger readers but my college aged sister introduced me to this one and I was totally hooked . A love of historical fiction and gothic romance followed and I read all of Victoria Holt 's novels . There was no end in sight after that and today 27 years later I often wonder where I would be without Victoria Holt . I recommend this book to all young adults . It will introduce you to a whole new world one of reading . ",4
"This book actually should be under one of Victoria Holt 's other pen names Jean Plaidy . Plaidy writes about actual historical figures.The Queen 's Confession is told by Marie Antoinette herself . Well not actually but how she would have written it . She grows up in the Austrian court under the guidance of her mother the Empress Maria Therese . She marries the Dauphin of France and deals with the uncrowned queen Madame du Barry . Finally she becomes queen and started the beginning of the end of the French monarchy . Scandal intrigue and flamboyancy were never as great and the consequences are even greater.This book was wonderful ! I actually learned a lot about her I thought I knew everything ! . Also it is a good book to read if you are in for a good cry . ",4
"I prefer Jean Plaidy 's books to those written under the name of Victoria Holt mainly because I have an insane passion for historical fiction . In all of her I novels written from the point of view of a Queen the reader actually becomes that woman 's confidante and you feel that you really know her . It 's an extraordinary gift for a writer to make someone feel so at home with an aloof historical character.ETA 103009 Having read more Plaidy recently and finding her style dry and hard to get through I wonder what my opinion of this book would be now 10 years since my original review ? ",4
"Victoria Holt was one of my favorite authors when I was younger . A master storyteller she would consistently weave a story that would have the reader turning the pages . This work of historical fiction is one of her best . Riveting from beginning to end this fictional autobiographical account of the life of Marie Antoinette is superb . Written in the first person with little dialogue it is the rumination of a life that was to end tragically . Pampered spoiled and fun loving the beautiful Maria Antonia of Austria metamorphosed into Marie Antoinette of France upon her marriage to the Dauphin who would eventually become King of France the ineffectual but benign Louis XVI.This is her story grounded in historical fact and set within the framework of history . This work of fiction about the life of Marie Antoinette as seen through her own eyes is fascinating as it captures the flavor of those uncertain times and the events that led to the French Revolution and the end of the monarchy in France . It is a reflection on how Marie Antoinette 's own behavior influenced the fate of France . Indulging in the excesses of the day she initially gave little thought as to how her actions might affect the people of France or the monarchy . By the time she realized that her actions and excesses had wide spread political ramifications it was too late and her fate as well as that of her husband was sealed . No amount of personal regret could change it.This book will be enjoyed by those who enjoy good well written historical fiction . It is little wonder that this book spent two months on the New York Times Best Seller List . It is simply historical fiction at its best . ",4
"Ahhh Marie Antoinette . By now most people know she really did not utter the phrase let them eat cake in response to the raising bread shortage . During her and her husband 's reign the country was very unstable . There was a famine a huge deficit and finally the Bastille and Reign of Terror.The book begins with her at 14 and just about to be married to the Dauphin of France . With get a look at what it must have been like to be her a child bride and completely unaware of what is in store for her . the famous line when they became the reigning king and queen we are too young to govern was probably true.We see her slowly mature and see through her eyes the country falling apart . What noone realized at the time was it really was n't all her doing.Written as though she herself wrote it while awaiting exeuction we feel sorry for her and that is truly the mark of a great book and a great writer . ",4
"This was my first book by Victoria Holt and also my first book on Marie Antoinette . I knew a little about her from my college history class but that was all . This story provided more information than class and moved along quickly . It was very exciting at times and written in a way that was very believable . The book contained real quotations from various sources which was also interesting . It would be helpful for the reader to have some background information on the time period andor Marie Antoinette in order to make reading the story a little smoother . There are a TON of names and places mentioned which can make it confusing but not enough dates . Dates are mentioned only here and then . My one complaint is that several times all French sentences were used with no translation so since I do n't speak French they detracted from the story . I would have liked to have known the translations to those . ",3
"This novel is written in the first person by the queen who bluntly acknowledges her failings and records her regrets about what she might have done differently.One of the most well written episodes in the novel is that in which Marie Antoinette attempts to escape France incognito in a lavishly equipped outsized vehicle known as a berlin . We share the queen 's frustration and regret that she chose such a conspicuous highstatus vehicle especially when she tells us that her brotherinlaw picked a shabby carriage for his own ultimately successful escape . Our frustration mounts as the party of escapees makes blunder after blunder such as missing connections and stopping to let the royal children stretch their legs . At the same time though even as we readers know the attempt is doomed we find ourselves hoping against all logic that it succeeds after all.My only real dissatisfaction with this novel came from the limitations the firstperson narration imposed . I would have liked to have read more about what was going on outside Marie Antoinette 's chambers to learn more of what was taking place in the minds of the people around her . All in all though this is a historical novel well worth reading . ",3
"And to me there 's a big difference between the two.This is one of my favorite books ever . I once owned a hard copy and it broke my heart when I lost it . This is not your runofthemill bodice rippers this is actually a historically correct realistic and totally fascinating story . Ingram takes you right into the details and politics of what life was like for the real people not the perfumed toadies in court . The times were perilous and things could and did ! change in the blink of an eye.Julitta is one of the strongest fictional heroines I 've read and I love how the relationship between her and Red Adam develops . They 're not perfect people but they are honorable and they are perfect for each other . Even if Julitta does n't believe it for quite a while maybe because she does n't . This is not a hot lustful romp it 's a love story set in a dangerous historical time and it 's really the best historical romance I 've ever read . ",4
"From the dust jacket Red Adam 's Lady is a boisterous bawdy tale of wild adventure set against the constant dangers of medieval England . It is a story of civil war and border raids scheming aristocrats and brawling villagers daring escapesIts vivid details give the reader a fascinating and realistic view of life in a medieval castle and villageThe reviews here are excellent . There are times when I cringe at the brutality of an era but the writing here is so fastpaced I found I did n't have time . It 's a wild ride and highly enjoyable . ",4
"There are only a few romance books that I would even consider giving five stars but this is certainly one . Like many of the other reviewers I read this as a teen and still have my old ragged copy . I would recommend this to anyone who enjoys a good historical romance where there is more emphasis on the emotional relationship between the main characters and less on the sexual relationship . ",4
"I bought this book when it first came out and LOVED it enough to read it three times in a short period . I do n't know what happened to it and I would LOVE to get another copy of it . However the prices here are WAY out of my price range and I would love to see it come out in ebook format . ",4
"I was looking out over the ocean and I thought of this book that I had read 30 years ago . I went over all the details in my mind that I could remember and wished I still had this book to read . I grabbed my mac and went to amazon.com in the hopes of finding a copy . I read all the reviews and I was amazed at how many women are out there who remember this book as I do . The other reviews are all accurate . In one scene Jullitta and Adam are on the run . They are in getting ready to go to sleep and she tells him that if she ever calls him husband he will know that she is his . Which really matters at a later time . There are deer flapping at the oat cakes they were going to have to breakfast and wild painted scots bent on murder . It 's really a beautiful story . I hope they offer it on kindle soon . ",4
"Lady Julitta de Montrigod was mistaken for a vixen while on her way home to her uncle 's house when her horse was shod . The ravisher is none other than Red Adam drunk as a skunk with his loutish friends and also on his way home . Here you have two people who start out as enemies.Red Adam is everything she abhors in men loud with the manners of a caveman and morals that are as low as a rock on the ground . Mistaken he thinks she is bashful until she bites him . The description of these two going at it is so good you will think you are a fly on the wall in the room . And then she knocks him out with a stool.Unable to leave the room because his friends want their turn with her she waits until Adam wakes up . And then they verbally go at it again tit for tat . Until he tells her to bar the door after he leaves and he will marry her the next day.And so begins the unusual courtingaftermarriage to earn Julitta 's love . Ever so slowly he earns her respect . Gritty and raw at times RED ADAM 'S LADY is one of those books where the less you know about the story the better.More adventure than romance Ms. Ingram did a good job of setting up the scenes and giving the reader a good sense of both place and time . Read this period piece for the rich history and the author excelling at bringing the medieval period to life . ",3
"I read this many years ago and have reread it many times since then . The story is gripping the characters vivid and engaging and it is just a satisfying read in every way . Look for it in used bookstores and library salesthe prices online are unreal . Whay has n't some clever publisher reissued this gem ? ",4
"It seems cruel to review this book because you ca n't get it anymore . My old copy is held together with rubber bands . I liked everything about it . All the characters were wonderful the history was accurate the mystery and intrigue were mysterious and intriguing . The secondary characters were almost better than the main characters . Good was n't always pretty and Evil was evil with reasons and sometimes even strengths . You could hiss the villians and cheer the good guys but you knew that these people lived and you mourned and rejoiced with them . When the hero finally wins his lady 's love it 's a timeless moment . Her love is an achievementnot a casual tumble in the normal historical bodice ripper . My only complaint about this book was it was too short and there 's never been a sequel . If you can find a copy read it you 'll love it . ",4
"I am thrilled to see others know how good this book is ! I read this years ago and kept the copy for a long time . Then because I was crazy I got rid of my copy . I kept thinking about it though and a few years ago paid about 40 dollars for a used copy . Money well spent ! I read this book at least once a year and enjoy it every time . I keep hoping it will be reprinted so more people can enjoy reading about Adam and Julitta . There is something romantic about a man literally having some sense knocked into him . Unlike so many romances of the time that had the love interest fight each other to the end then suddenly they are in love Ms. Ingram gradually brings Julitta from dislike to grudging respect friendship and then love . All this while the Scots are over the border there is disloyalty in the household and treason is afoot . This it a great read ! ",4
"Lady Julitta is mistaken for a peasant and is accosted by a drunken Red Adam de Lorismond the new lord of Brentborough . Adam takes Julitta back to his keep bent on rape but the ever resourceful Julitta knocks him out with a stool and when he 's sober Adam marries her to assuage her damaged honor . Julitta is none too thrilled with the match but sparks soon fly between the two as Julitta 's uncle Lord William and his cronies conspire to support young Henry in his plan to oust his father Henry II and rule England instead . Julitta also soon finds her hands full with a castle and mutinous servants allowed to run to ruin by the previous lord of Brentborough Adam 's uncle a thieving seneschal invading armies of Scots a perilous climb down ocean cliffs a mysterious death or two and more as Red Adam and his lady banter their way through it all to find true love in the end.While I very much enjoyed this book at times it was a bit too busy and fast paced for my tastes . At times I lost track of who was who when characters from the first part of the book returned back to the story and the author did n't provide enough background to refresh my memory and I got lost more than once until I fell back into the groove . A cast of characters and their various names and titles would have helped quite a bit and enhanced my appreciation of the story . That said it was a highly enjoyable romp through the 12th century and a very entertaining read . I see from the current selling price the book is quite rare but if you are lucky as I was to find it at your library it 's worth taking the time to check this one out . ",3
"Mistaken for a peasant girl and kidnapped by the drunken lord of Brentborough while returning home to an abusive uncle Julitta valiantly defends her virtue . Forced into marriage the next morning to salvage her reputation she gradually begins to trust the tenderness and respect with which her noble husband eventually wins her.The period detail and writing literally draw you into the story weaving a lush tapestry against which the splendid romance between the strong heroine and the persistent hero unfolds beautifully . Red Adam is not only patient and kind as he endeavors to win Julitta 's affections but he is strong and intelligent recognizing in Julitta an equal worthy partner and giving her full control of the household whenever he must ride out . Facing impudent serving wenches a resentful chatelaine an insolent comrade of Red Adam 's and even a thieving cook Julitta has her hands full with the running of the estate and all its inherent problems not to mention the whisper of mystery surrounding the former lord . Throw into that brew political unrest and rebellion raiding Scotts betrayal and breathtaking escape and you have a truly dynamic potent tale.There is just so much more to the story than the above . A true bond between the characters genuine affection and several subplots all threads being masterfully combined . Any summary is inadequate . But if you like adventure a mystery interwoven throughout compelling history that draws you into its pages true love in the truest sense and blazing triumph over adversity then this is your book ! I do n't know why no one will republish it ! ",4
"I too am desperately seeking a copy of this book . I read it when I was in high school and it really turned me on to reading . I read that book 5 or six times it was totally dog eared and worn . Now 20 years later I still think about it and I ca n't find this book anywhere . To me reading this story was like stepping back in time into a romantic and charming and exciting time I really wish the publisher would re print this book ! I would love to have my daughters read it now . ",4
"When I first started reading this book I was bored but by the time I finished it I loved it ! Nora 's mother abandoned her and her father died mysteriously in search of gold in the Outback of Australia . Her guardian the Lynx sends his son Stirling to fetch her and bring her back to Australia . On their way out of England they accidentally stop by Whiteladies and old castle inhabited by a young lady Minta is n't that at pretty name ? her parents and her governess . From there they go to Australia . Once there Nora meets Lynx seemingly halfman halfgod . She also finds strange coincidences between the estate in Australia and Whiteladies including the name . Nora finds herself in the middle of a feud . If her life is n't already mixed up she must also choose between Stirling or Lynx . ",4
"Hard to describe this one . I ca n't really put my finger on it but this book is a bit too out there for me.Ms . Holt takes us through a journey with a young lady who has been orphaned . She finds herself being taken from the country she has grown up in and taken to a foreign land . She falls in love with the man that her father worked for but not before she makes him a fortune and not before she falls in love with the same man 's son.It does n't hurt that the family is very rich and she has come from a very poor background . ",3
"Or worse . Well first of all she manages to add in at the end the usual whodunnit with the criminal being the person most trusted . Then there is the whole being in love with the Lynx . I just did n't think that was realistic at all . We did n't even have the comfort of a happy ever after end . But I 'm sure plenty of readers will disagree with me and think it was a fantastic story . ",0
"Thomas Tamasin spends his life chasing rainbows and leaves his daughter Nora firmly ensconced at school as he chases the biggest one of all and heads for the gold fields of Australia . He soon dies and leaves Nora in the care partneremployer Charles Herrick also known as The Lynx for his dominating personality . Charles 's son Stirling arrives in England to escort Nora to Australia but they make a curious stop at a country estate called The Whiteladies named for the nunnery it had been at one time and Stirling seems to have a strange interest in the estate and it 's inhabitants . Stranger still when Nora arrives in Australia the Herrick home is a copy of Whiteladies.Nora soon discovers that The Lynx has a mysterious past of his own falsely accused of theft in England and deported to Australia as a criminal . As the Herrick family 's fortune increases it leads them ever closer to the obsession of Charles enacting financial havoc on those he blames for his false conviction . Nora and Stirling return to England with Stirling bent on completing his father 's plans for revenge . They soon insert themselves into the lives of the residents of Whiteladies as Nora fights to stop Stirling before his lust for revenge destroys all their lives.Whew that 's more plot description than I care to give but there 's not much on the product page . I found this book a bit slow paced at times and a tad too predictable especially the murder attempts on Minta . I also found the alternating POV 's between Sara and Minta in the latter part of the book quite distracting . A nice comfort read for a rainy day it 's a good book just not a great one . 35 stars . ",2
"I am going to leave most of the 'finding out ' to the curious reader . It is a very good book by Victoria Holt . Unknown plots surface . That 's all the clues I 'm going to give . ",4
"Every Herman Wouk book I have read has been incredible but this one takes first prize.The Winds of War is a work of historical fiction about the lead up to the outbreak of World War II in Europe it had of course already begun in Asia between Japan and China and other Asian neighbors and the effect of the war on an American military family . It ends when America enters the war . The sequel War and Remembrance continues the story through the end of the war.The main character Victor Henry a Commander in the United States Navy is sent to Germany just before the beginning of the war as a naval attache in the American embassy . He is the gruff career military man with compassion and love just below the surface and easily recognized by anyone except his family . His wife Rhoda is a Washington DC socialite who was captivated by Victor but is now restless in her life as an officer 's wife.Victor and Rhoda have three children Warren the eldest who follows his father into the Navy and puts in for flight training a daughter who is a less developed character and the aptly named Byron a dreamer and a sensitive man who bridles under his father 's influence and flees college to Siena Italy where he becomes an assistant to the American Jewish writer Aaron Jastrow and falls in love with his daughter Natalie.Victor Henry has something of Zelig in him and is a bit player in many important events of the time . He attends a weekend retreat of highranking Nazis and has meetings with FDR.Byron 's employer Aaron Jastrow is a complex man both running from his roots as a Yeshiva boy in Poland and the product of those roots . Natalie is a perfect picture of an American expat woman living in Europe first Paris than Italy in the heyday of Americans living abroad . And all of us can empathize with Byron the young man who has not yet found his way in the world.All these characters are set against the backdrop of the precursor to war and the beginning of the war . For instance one of the best sections of the book is an extremely harrowing but vivid section in which Byron Natalie and Natalie 's lover get stuck in Poland as the Nazis begin their occupation of that country.The fact that Wouk can seamlessly weave this web of characters into the tumultuous time in the late 1930s and early 1940s is a testament to a great author . Indeed I am writing this review at least 10 years after finishing the book yet it is all vivid in my mind.One final note that deserves mention Wouk treats us to several sections of a fictional book within a book . After the war Victor Henry translates a book by a German World War II general . Wouk intersperses excerpts of this fictional book throughout the story providing a seemingly totally realistic view from a German nationalist who fought for the Nazis although was not a Nazi himself.A must read for anyone who would describe himself or herself as any of the following a a history or historical fiction fan b a fan of epic romance c anyone interested in World War II d anyone interested in the Navy . ",4
"This is a great great book that details the currents of history and the prime movers in the world that started WWII and the reasons that Japan entered the conflict that was already raging in Europe.Mr . Wouk does a masterful job of creating fictional interesting and tragic characters to create the back drop for the drama of world conflict and gives interesting insights into the main political figures that played the biggest roles in WWII.If you are at all interested in this period of history but find reading history books to be dull and dry then historical fiction in general and this book in particular is a must read bc WWII was the primary reason that the USA became a world super power albeit unwillingly at first.One can not know why are we where we are until we know where we came from which is why this book is so interesting.WWII decimated Europe and the USA played a bigmajor role England and France played lesser roles in the rebuilding of Europe especially Germany but did so in large part to keep the RussiansCommunists from claiming all of Europe to the English Channel.After reading this book if you are still interested in what happened after Germany surrendered then you should read Armaggedon by Leon Uris which is an historical fiction about what happend in Germany when it surrendered and the Allied forces took control along with the Russians . However the Russians were in it to grab as much of Europe as they could.This era in history is so interesting and it is easier to learn about it with a great novel like the Winds of War ",4
"I recalled this being a mini series from when I was 8 years old and all of the hoopla surrounding it . I can still remember from my youth Robert Mitchum dressed in his Navy outfit as the epic music played.As someone absolutely infatuated with United States history I knew that this was something that I needed to read . I was actually absolutely shocked at how I fell in love with the characters in this book . I am also amazed at how much I learned regarding United States and their involvement in World War II . This book has a little bit of everything & # 8211 romance action historical intrigue and insight that you can barely get from any other book.This book follows the family of Victor Henry a naval commander with three children . The children branch out and each have their own story to tell . From the United States to the Soviet Union Poland to Italy and beyond . This story takes you all over the globe and that you find yourself caring about each and every one of the characters . This book will give you incredible insight into the lives of historical figures such as Adolf Hitler Benito Mussolini Franklin Roosevelt Winston Churchill Joseph Stalin and others.Some readers complain that the Kindle version is glitchy . That must have been fixed because I had no problems at all.I just ordered War and Remembrance and I ca n't wait to start ! ",4
"Like any historical fiction novel one must be a little skeptical about how facts are retold . Nonetheless the book does a good job retelling the major events leading up to WWII while delivering an interesting plot around its main characters . So I have been entertained with the story while learning some new things about the war too . ",4
"splendid story telling . The history is fairly close the truth . This is my second read through although it had been something like twenty years since the first time . There is more than enough detail that it made it a please to reread . ",4
"This is such a great tome of a novel on the global events leading up to WWII and great characters that you are rooting for . But one must have a lot of patience to get through the entire thingand know that it is just book 1 of 2 ! I still recommend it though . ",3
"Let 's start off by being clear here Winds of War is not a bangem up war book . Although there are scenes of battles they are told either a from the perspective of an observer i.e . Pug Henry seeing the battle unfolding b or as a historical overview of what happened during the battle . So in answer to the negative review that this book contained no major military battles it is n't that kind of book . Winds of War is essentially a story about the Henry family and Pug and Byron in particular against the backdrop of the rise of the Third Reich . Both Pug and Byron have vastly different love interests and the book interweaves their love stories with the events that lead up to the attack on Pearl Harbor . Of course the book is so much more that a romance novel . Wouk takes his main characters from the German invasion of Poland to England during the Battle of Britain to Moscow during Operation Barbarossa and finally to Pearl Harbor and Manilla Bay . with lots of other ports of call in between . Interspersed in the book are excerpts from a fictional book written by a german general after the war and after Neuremburg . These excerpts give a fascinating look into the german side of the war . Wouk also uses these excerpts to give historical context to many of the battles and events which occur behind the scenes . Winds of War does n't merely tely a story it attempts to describe why certain events occurred . For example the characters in the book do n't merely react to Hitler and call him every bad name in the book certain of the characters actually discuss why they think Hitler rose to power . Wouk then takes the character 's opinions on certain events to help explain their conduct and make it more believable for instance Aaron Jastrow seems to lack concern when faced with the prospect of Nazi rule in part because of his knowledge of history and what he believes history tells him about the German people . Each of the main characters is wonderfully unique and Wouk does an amazing job of keeping all the characters distinct to the point where I could anticipate certain reactions like Slote 's nervous giggle in times of high stress . This is the fastest 1000 page book you will ever read . ",4
"For someone interested in long novels and history this is a heavensent book rich in imagination and historical facts . I wonder what prompted Mr Wouk to write this book . There is no match for it in the literary world ! ! ",4
"What an unbelievable work of art . This book not only grabs you and pulls you in with wonderful characters and writing but you find yourself lost in the time and place . I am currently about a fourth of the way through War and Remembrance.it is equally splendid . I first read Marjorie Morningstar and fell in love with Herman Wouk 's style and mastery of the storyline and character development . At times when reading these books I am incredibly sad other times uplifted and yet other times amazed . Absolutely one of the best authors I 've ever readand I have read alot of books . ",4
"Enough already with the distracting Kindle version typos ! Otherwise a highly readable account of the eve and first years of WWII . The improbabilities are outweighed by the author ` s sweeping command of history . ",3
"The TV serial has many dfferences from the book both are excellent . Both are reasonably accurate . For Naval detIails see Morison 's Operational History of the USN In WW II Skip vol . XVI a fantastic index ",4
"Herman Wouk is a fantastic writer . I read The Winds of War and War and Remembrance when I was a young woman . I am enjoying the book just as much the second time around . ",3
"I was going through my old book looking to clear out the shelves and donate to the library when I found this and decided to reread it.It 's better the second time around . I found myself wanting to strangle Uncle Aaron and to scream at Natalie . I think knowing what 's in store for the various characters just built up the tension.My husband is a WWII junkie and so I have seen every episode of every documentary ever made about that war . But I learned more about the causes of the war and the thinking of the politicians from this one novel than from any of the documentaries . If you are even vaguely interested in that war read this . Not just history but a great story ",4
"I read Winds of War as well as War and Remembrance 30something years ago and ever since have felt that they were the best most compelling books I had read in my life . That 's never changed despite having read hundreds of books since then . So I put Winds of War on my Kindle and am rereading slowly savoring each chapter this time through.If you have n't read them do so . You wo n't regret it . ",4
"This classic novel is epic in scope and feeling from the Herman Wouk 's text . The only problem this audio production has is its solo narration of Kevin Pariseau with his limited vocal shading of his characters . I would have thought Dick Hill with his vocal bag of tricks he uses on the Brilliance 87th Precinct or Jack Reacher mysteries would have been better suited for this huge task Nevertheless Pariseau will keep the listener interested with his good narrative voice . However I would have suggested a second voice even if Dick Hill may have been usedrather than Mr. Pariseau solo effort to give the story more body.I know I listened to this audio production in six hour spurts over a week . It is over 46 hours not something you can listen to in a few hours . Most of you will take this on a long long car or RV trip it would be fine . However Pariseau voice tended to lose its luster after a few hours of listening.If you are in the mood for a multienveloping story of one man nasval officer Pug Henry and his family who areor get involved in the beginning of the second world war . Wouk has written a masterful novel that covers the a global perspective on events leading up to WW2 . The war is moreover covered in the second second book of this saga . The audio is unabridged on audio I heard the cd version from Brollance Audio which captures the text of the first volume of Winds of WarThose who have never seen the TV miniseries The Winds of War & its sequel War and Rememberence and love that television landmark saga this audio production is for you.However this audio is not made for the casual listener who likes a four to six hour audio book . The listener will have to invest time with this production . It is an epic saga that spans a few years but it has everything in this from romance to Heroism with American patriots written into the text . It is powerful piece . If you stay the course in the 46 hours I congratulate you . Few may.Bennet PomerantzAUDIOWORLD ",3
"Wonderful story of World War II told by one man 's family who happen to be in all the right wrong ? places to be involved in the many aspects of the war from Europe to the Pacific to the home frontsort of a serious Forrest Gump story . I checked the validity of some of the history and everything seems to be accurate . ",4
"The pair Winds of War plus War and Remembrance are mustread books for anyone who wants to understand World War II . Following a military family through the prewar years up until Pearl Harbor Winds of War sets the stage and covers the early war in Europe in detail . War and Remembrance then picks up after Pearl Harbor and gets all the way to the victory over the Japanese.Artfully using characters that have a plausible reason to be in important locales for the war Wouk combines the family 's story with military analysis by a fictitious German general to give a complete story . It 's amazing that he can work so much that 's relevant to the war into a drama about fictional characters.The novel gives you a sense of the military and geographic factors that drove the war the logistic and economic factors and the psychology of the leaders of the great powers . But you 're also treated to an understanding of the spirit of the times . Younger readers especially will begin to understand what it was like to live in an age very unlike the modern world and one in which mortal threats were commonplace.I recently reread Winds of War after a twenty year gap and enjoyed it even more this time . I feel that I know the characters even better the second time through and better understand their predicaments and the choices they made.I only have only one quibble about characterization . One of the characters a Jewish wife to one of the military family is the onscene witness in Europe to Germany 's treatment of the Jews . While I think that material is very important the series of circumstances that keeps her and her uncle in Europe seems a bit contrived to me . But I 'll give Wouk a little license . The book would have not been complete or nearly as powerful if it had left out a complete understanding of the Holocaust and if it took a little contrivance to get two Americans to witness those events I consider that a worthwhile trade.If you 've seen the TV series and liked it you really ought to get the complete picture by reading this book . I 've given it as a gift to friends for years . I used to pick up copies I would see in used book stores so that I could give it to folks I thought might be interested.Unfortunately I ended up with no copies except one very old fallingapart one and bought a recent printing of the paperback . The quality was not as good it should be probably because this book is over a thousand pages and they cut some corners on production . I have to wash my hands after each reading because the print smudges off the book . So if you can afford it you might want to get the schoollibrary binding version instead . It 's more than twice as expensive but I expect it 's of far superior quality . I 'm probably going to pick up one of those myself . This pair of books is one that ought to be displayed proudly in any thinking person 's library . ",4
"This was purchased for my wife who is in Jail in Fla. She said she really enjoyed it . My only concern is that it took almost a month to reach her . I am answering this disappointment in an other email . ",4
"This is so huge that it takes time to digest all information in the book . This is massive . This is good . This is a new classic . ",4
"This novel is definitely a mustread for WWII buffs . Wouk 's seamless interweaving of historical events daily life and the mannerisms of major personalities and the lives of his fictional Henry and Jastrow families is a monumental achievement and one not likely to be duplicated . I am a graduate student studying the art and mass culture of this period and Wouk 's evocation of the era is gripping and convincing . Rarely have I read an historical novel which so brilliantly draws its readers into a vanished world and reconstructs the preoccupations of that world with such skill . However Wouk 's admirable grasp of the period and the authority of his research can not prevent the reader from ultimately realizing that this novel is nothing more than a simple melodrama once the layers of research are removed . Wouk 's characterizations are uniformly cliched . The midlife crises of Pug and Rhoda the TopGun activities of Warren the standardissue comingofage of Byron the dithery bookishness of Aaron Jastrow we have seen all these people before in countless novels films and plays . The only unexpected character is Natalie Jastrow who begins the book I count this novel and its sequel as one work as a vibrant energetic female intellectual and tomboy and ends her story as a conventional wife and mother . In short the characters are utter cliches and would be boring without their setting . This is a novel of events not of people . In this one respect Wouk 's book fails as literature . Stylistically the book is also somewhat ponderous but the sheer power of the events Wouk describes renders it quite readable . ",3
"I 'm a bit too young for World War II but my dadenlisting in the Navy at age 17survived Pearl Harbor a later kamikaze attack on his ship the USS San Francisco at the battle of Guadalcanal and personal participation in the invasion of Guam 3rd wave to set up a communications station . As a Navy brat I played on abandoned pillboxes in the jungle outside of Subic Bay Philippines in the late 50s and picked up empty shell casings on a group family outing to Corregador.That said I consider _The Winds of War_ and _War and Remembrance_ to be the greatest novels written about World War II . The historical detail is dead on the military political and social commentary is brilliant and the story itself keeps you pageturning for a few thousand pages . It is a heartwrenching book that helps one graspsix decades laterwhat it was like to have the entire world plunged into war with a close look at the horrors of the Holocaust.Wouk actually served in the US Navy in the Pacific during WW II . He lived through the war and brings that whole era to life in a way that I doubt any current author could . And yet they are utterly relevant today . I frankly think they should be required reading in college or even high school . Read them . ..bruce.. ",4
"There are 4 components a writer needs to write Style Theme Character Development and Storytelling Ability . All writers have these traits in varying degrees but no writer has ever been called truly GREAT without having an abundance of Storytelling Ability . This is paramount if you ca n't hook the reader it does n't matter how jazzy you write or how noble is your theme . You must be able to tell a good story . Our greatest and most popular writers have always understood this Hemingway Miller Wolfe both Bellow Stephen King . Great storytellers . Seated in the front row of this class is Herman Wouk an enormously popular writer who despite his Pulitzer Prize for The Caine Mutiny has never been considered great in the sense that these others have.That 's a true shame . Wouk can tell a storyand I mean a WHOPPER an EPIC in the true sense of the wordlike nobody else from his generation . The Winds of War is part one of his absolute masterpiece a tsunami tale of adventure tragedy romance death birthyou name it it 's in there . The story of the Henry family headed by Victor Pug Henry a Captain in the U.S. Navy as it spreads across the globe during World War Two.This is a virtuoso performance . Wouk knits the personal stories of the Henry clan together with factual history using letters quotes from speeches & books anything he can think of to put you THERE smack dab in the middle of the action . And you are there you follow Pug to meetings with Roosevelt Hitler Churchill Stalin and on and on . Putting fictional characters in the room with real people is a huge risk it almost never works but Wouk pulls it off with charm to spare . You 're in Warsaw when the Nazis invade you 're at Pearl Harbor when the Japanese attack you 're in Rome when Mussolini declares war . Wouk sucks you into the narrative so completely you forget that Pug 's travels are pretty damn impossible . Who cares ? He 's a HERO it 's his job to be in impossible situations and Pug does his job like a champion . All of his characters are absolutely fleshed out the dialogue is nearly earperfect the historical events build momentum like no book you 'll ever readforget all the pretenders to the throne from Mailer to Jones and all the little men in between . THIS IS THE GREAT NOVEL OF THE SECOND WORLD WAR . This is good oldfashioned storytelling genius the kind of book nobody writes anymore because Style has taken center stage in the last 50 years sadly . I blame Joyce If more people would read this book and its sequel War And Remembrance maybe we could get back to what writingin fact language itselfwas created for in the first place TO TELL A STORY.Check out Herman Wouk one of the greats . ",4
"The way that Herman Wouk winds tangential stories from the family and friends of Victor Henry the main character is highly compelling . His inclusion of a purported work of history which on its own offers questions about how we interpret history as written by a Nazi officer and translated by Victor Henry is brilliant . I will continue to ponder the picture of the Axis as a chimera as described in the work of history . ",3
"One of the two best books fiction ever written on WWII . The other being War and Remembrance . Mr. Wouk is one of the great writers of our time . ",4
"THS IS A GREAT BOOK ABOUT THE CAUSE AND EFFECTS OF THE WORLD SITUATION THAT LED TO THE 2ND WORLD WWAR.i BELEIVE THAT EVERYYOUNG PERSON TODAY SHOULD READ THIS BOOK AND FOLLOW UP WITH wAR AND REMEMBERANCE ",4
"The story takes us and the Henry Family from 1939 to 1941 . We see how the coming war changes members of the Henry family and their friends . We meet some of the important people who shaped the world and led us into War . We participate in the invasion of Poland and learn who the war changed the lives of those who were involved . Some characters face terrible challenges and rise to the occasion and others fail . Hitler was not a nice person . Read the book and watch the miniseries . It was interesting to see the attitudes of many Americans before the war and others in Europe how they thought things were going . ",4
"I 've always loved this book and just reread it . Wouk got down so many details not just of history but of everyday Navy life and really life in general how persons interact with one another . I do think a reallife Pug Henry would have dropped dead of a heart attack before doing half of what he did in the novel but that 's a small quibble . ",4
"Wouk 's writing is so approachable you get to know the main characters very well in a thousand pages ! The inclusion of an Axis commentary on WWII is brilliant . For those of us 'boomers ' that were born right after the War the book is reminiscent of the stories which with we were raised . ",4
"In the foreward of my copy I am still touched by Herman Wouk 's talents Peace if it ever exists will not be based on the fear of war but on the love of peace . It will not be the abstaining from an act but the coming of a state of mind . In this sense the most insignificant writer can serve peace where the most powerful tribunals can do nothing.All family members and military figures in this great novel had to find their own form of peace . Their faith was challenged . As was their fundamental ways of life.I especially enjoy how the arthor combined true history with the fictional family . It was easy to relate to each family member and to root for their desire for peace.The message that the quote above carries in my heart is also something that I believe we must apply in our daily lives . It 's extremely valuable to face problems from a desire for peace knowing that looking directly at the problems and what role we play creates love that is passed onto others naturally . ",4
"I read this in hardcopy when it was first published . During several moves I have lost the book . I decided to get the Kindle edition and I am thrilled to read this wonderful author again . I found the sequel 'War and Remembrance ' in the last move and will read that . This is a long novel but well worth the time . Although fiction it involved historical figures that give it a reallife experience quality . The fictional characters are fully developed and it is easy to visualize their life during the run up to World War II . It is definitely a cautionary tale in today 's world where most of us have the tendency to bury our heads in sandor in family and workand hope things will get better without doing anything ourselves . Great read . I 'm still on the second half because this is really two volumes and even knowing the end I 'm rooting for Natalie and Aaron to get back home . ",4
"I go from historical romance novels to historical fiction to nonfiction but easytoread history . Each of them has its own slant on perspective about that era ranging from historyas wallpaper to upclose rendering as if you were there . This is one of the very few novels that manages to combine the elements of all 3 kinds of those books into a very gripping reading saga of WWII . So you are given well researched history in a very palatable form . It follows an interrelated cast of characters all over the map with WWII taking us deeply into the critical locales . There is even a fascinating account given by a German general interspersed throughout of the war as seen through the opposite side 's eyes . Wouk does an incredible job and his sequel War and Remembrance is almost as goood . ",4
"I recently bought this edition along with War & Remembrance as a gift to my retiring assistant who herself worked for the Dept of the Navy more than 30 years . I read the book years ago and would recommend it to anyone without hesitation . ",4
"The Winds of War & War & Remembrance I watched this great movie on DVD .And look forward to reading this book . ",4
"If you were one of those students that was doodling during American History or more likely by spring when WWII was covered was thinking of other things as the teacher sped through the entire event in two periods this is an wonderfully enjoyable way to get the history you missed . Following two families this historic fiction offers insights into WWII that no textbook could . It opens in early 1939 and closes with Pearl Harbor describing events in London Europe Washington and the Pacific . The book includes an enormous amount of factual data on actual events and individuals who played a significant role during the period . Additionally it very effectively employs the device of reports written by a fictitious German general to provide the German perspective on the war effort there . All in all an excellent book that should be required reading for anyone that feels they know too little about the period . And the sequel War and Remembrance which I am now reading is an excellent follow up continuing to track the characters throughout the remainder of the war . ",4
"I read this when it came out and decided to reread . It is a very interesting family story but is also a very informative historical narrative about the several years before the US entered WW2 . The description of the political social and military history of the time is as engrossing as the personal story . Very well written and highly recommended . ",4
"This novel was an enormous best seller in the 1970s for good reason . Wouk is a skilled story teller and the reader quickly learns to like and to care about the fate of Wouk 's characters . Also Wouk portrays a vision of America appealing to Americans they enter war reluctantly but once in they fight the good war and fight it well . Although Wouk knows too much about the military to abandon all cynicism he portrays military men as generally competent committed and patriotic.The appeal of the novel is also its limitation . This is not a meditation on the human condition like Tolstoy 's War and Peace . Also Wouk uses his characters to tell the whole story of the lead up to World War II . He is sufficiently skilled to pull it off but he spreads his characters a bit thin in the process.I recommend the book as highly entertaining . Despite its length it reads fast . ",3
"This was on my list of summer reads and is truly enlighteningI now have a deeper understanding of World War II . Herman Wouk is a master storyteller and keeps you coming back for more ! Hisinsights on human nature and the human condition are right ontarget . It is truly frightening to think how close we were to losing both the Pacific and European battles due to complacency and isolationism . War and Remembrance is also a must read . ",4
"Long but worth the time . The author provides an historial account of WWII that headlines or history books of that period could not provide . He personalizes that period by following a family as they deal with the everchanging landscape of war . ",3
"This is an epic factfiction WWII novel something like War & Peace . Wouk makes his characters come to life . Robert Mitchem played the main role of Pug Henry in the TV series based on this book and he was a good choice . Wouk at 97 lives today in Palm Springs . ",4
"A great novel about World War II . I ca n't help comparing it to Winter of the WORLD by Ken Follett which was a fantastic novel about the same time period . ",3
"This story is really amazing . The way it 's told the language the author uses the character development the accuracy of millions of facts and lastly but most importantly the way this book filled with facts reads like a really good novel ! I 'm never bored and always left wondering . I 'm learning more now than ever before and my undergraduate minor was in history ! ! ",4
"My interest in this book started when I was a kid and I was n't allowed to see the miniseries . It gets worse when they showed it again in the mid 90 's I was DYING SICK so I did n't get to see it . Finally I got to see the miniseries due to the magic of DVD . All I can say is that thing is LENGTHY ! After seeing the series I continued on to the novel . The novel is also LENGTHY . Now it should be noted that I like SF and Fantasy mostly and if I 'm reading history I 'm usually reading big giant books like Shirer 's Rise and Fall of the Third Reich or Plutarch 's Lives . Historical Fiction seems rather redundant to me . I mean really what can you be asking yourself ? Is Hitler going to attack ? Will America enter the war ? ? Needless to say this is n't one of my favorite genres although I may be changing my tune on this opinion.I think this is the time for a warning for anyone who is in my particular position . That being of a person coming from the miniseries and are only reading or considering reading the book now . Part of the appeal of SEEING this story told is the beauty of the sets and the beauty of the landscapes and whatnot but Herman Wouk would have needed the descriptive ability of Tolkien to even attempt description on that level . This is why they made this book into a miniseries . Wouk decided to spend his energy on little things like character development and plot which is done very well.Another caveat regards the epigraph at the beginning of War and Remembrance the sequel to this book . Herman Wouk says that you can just go right ahead and read War and Remembrance without reading this book . DO N'T YOU BELIEVE IT ! The story being told here begins on page 1 of this novel and ends at the end of War and Remembrance.The story is that of World War II at least World War II up to Pearl Harbor as told from the point of view of the Henry family . Being a military family they have this tendency to be everywhere the story needs them to be . Of all the family relationships in this book you should keep an eye on Byron Henry who falls for a Jewish intellectual named Natalie Jastrow in 1939 Italy and then spends the next 2000 pages realizing that might have been some bad timing . Also the relationship between Natalie Jastrow and her uncle Aaron gets better as time goes on and things start to get dangerous.There is another thing I noticed about the characters . The characters in this book seem much more ADULT than people who are around now . For instance I ca n't see anyone I have ever met becoming a research assistant in Italy . I ca n't even think of anyone who would find that desirable ! They would be afraid of the AIR TRAVEL to get to Italy . I do n't know if Wouk is doing this unconsciously or consciously or if that 's just the way people were.Another thing too the various characters ' actions are rather mundane in the sense that there are n't a whole lot of twists and turns in the lives of the Henry family . This actually turns out to be a good thing because there is NOTHING any of the Henrys could do that could be more surprising than what the world leaders of the time were ACTUALLY doing.There is one last thing I have to say about this book . Because of the time that is covered in these pages there is a lot more um Europe in this book than in its sequel . This is the best feature of The Winds of War in my opinion . By starting the story in Germany and Italy we see British and German people among others voicing their viewpoints we establish that the great men of this era like Churchill Roosevelt Stalin and even Hitler did not just appear they came out of a culture that still thought of itself as the rulers of the world an idea that would disappear on the day of Hiroshima . It should be noted that the preceding paragraph is not intended as Pro or anti for that matter American crap it 's just history.Speaking of History I must comment on an aspect of this novel I think was very cool . There are excerpts from a history being written by a fictional general serving his 20 year prison term after Nuremberg . He was a character in the story and his perspective adds another voice to the story.Summing up then I stepped out of my favorite genre and it was good . At no point was I bored because I knew what was going to happen I Read this book before War and Remembrance but after seeing the miniseries which may have hurt it just a wee bit . But I still highly recommend this to anyone who is a fan of war stories if you are interested in World War II or just history in general.Do n't forget to read War and Remembrance where the real story is . ",3
"I 've read it several times over the years . I recently ordered it for my Kindle because I 've broken the spine on my paperback edition of it . I love that it covers pretty much every corner of the world during the period . The characters are very easy to relate to and three dimensional . I would recommend this and the second part to anyone who enjoys not only a good read but something that is worth putting time into . ",4
"Herman Wouk 's tale is a huge masterpiece sweeping in terms of plot character and history . His knowledge of WWII is staggering years of research are evident in the story . He also has the rare gift of literary poetry with imaginative similes rolling off the storyteller 's pen . The one very slight fault is that the occasional letters or diaries lose a bit of their authentic voice most people even creative geniuses do n't pen such cleverly Shakespearian notes to their loved ones . Otherwise this is a moving and satisfying drama about one of the globe 's great tragic conflicts . NOTE I read a hard copy not the muchaligned Kindle version . ",4
"As a novice reader beginning Herman Wouk 's massive epic Winds of War was a big challenge for me . It sat on my bookshelf for a while before I cracked the first page and was pleasantly surprised by its ability to keep me utterly engrossed in the story.As a historical fiction piece Wouk tells the story of a Navy family and their individual lives leading up to the United States ' entry into World War II . As the family of five spreads out around the world their paths continue to cross keeping their relationships alive and continually gravitating towards one another.Truly an epic tale Wouk does a magnificent job depicting in an interesting manner the historical events political persuasion national influence and social pressures surrounding WWII . You will learn about Hitler Stalin Mussolini Churchill and Roosevelt Wouk 's work is better than any history class I 've ever taken.This is an impactful must read for everyone and at the risk of sounding trite I would call this book a masterpiece.Have funDavid TobiasRedondo Beach CA ",4
"Mr. Wouk 's fictional characters become your neighbors and friends and his knowledge of WWII is amazing . I loved this book and will look for another H. Wouk book . ",4
"Totaling nearly 2000 pages of small print Herman Wouk 's The Winds of War and War and Remembrance can be compared to War and Peace in its immense scope . Together they tell the story of American naval officer Pug Henry and his family religion historian Aaron Jastrow and his niece Natalie and those they encounter during the period leading up to World War II The Winds of War and the War itself War and Remembrance . Historical characters mingle with fictional ones in richly drawn settings from prewar European cafes and embassies to the Oval Office in wartime Washington . We accompany them on air raids over German and in submarines in the Sea of Japan . Readers look into the poshest clubs in Singapore and Honolulu and the most depraved setting imaginable the German death camp of Auschwitz . Even some of Wouk 's numerous minor characters are capable of riveting his readers ' imagination . Under the war 's pressure the leading characters undergo great change and the reader will be kept in suspense until the very last page to see what becomes of them.In addition to a taut thrilling narrative the books present fascinating examinations of political military and philosophical history as the characters struggle to make sense of their quickly changing worlds . As the story progresses religion plays an increasingly important role . Wouk is an orthodox Jew and his Jewish characters in particular wrestle deeply with their identities . Discussions between characters involve the nature of European history the Jewish people how Americans see the world and how the world sees America . The historical research that informs these discussions is truly impressive at the very end Wouk makes clear the degree to which the story is fabricated and it is surprisingly slight.Besides relating numerous military particularly technical ones aspects of the war Wouk takes a hard look at many aspects of American and allied policy raising questions still unresolved regarding many controversial policy choices . He also strives to explore and explain the German mindset and viewpoint using devices such as a fictitious German general 's war memoirs to great effect . Wouk uses his characters and dialogue to explore in great detail how something as terrible as the Nazi regime and the Holocaust could have happened how a supposedly civilized advanced European state could have perpetuated it and how supposedly civilized advanced nations could have allowed it . Technology also plays a vital role in these stories both good e.g . sonar and bad e.g . those involved in the extermination of Europe 's Jews and one of a much more ambivalent nature atomic power.There are minor flaws in these works to be sure . Pug Henry can be a little too omniscient when it comes to military affairs . This is best understood as necessary to his role as narrator and voice of the author rather than an accurate portrayal of a naval officer . Digressions and technical discussions become more common and longer in the second volume and the battle analysis in the fictitious German memoirs can drag slowing the riveting narrative . Of course what might bore one reader may captivate another.In sum there is no more enjoyable and engaging way to explore the events that shook the world from the mid1930s until the end of World War II than reading these two masterpieces . While not every book can ever appeal to every reader these come as close as possible . ",4
"I learned more WWII history from this book than I had in school . That history was delivered via a very entertaining story of a naval officer and his family members . Some people may shy away from this book because of its length however I hated to see it end . Fortunately there is a sequel War and Remembrance which I immediately moved onto and finished . Now I am reading The Caine Mutiny by Herman Wouk . You probably correctly get the idea that I like these books . ",4
"Let me start by saying I am a Herman Wouk Fan . I love the Caine Mutiny and even like this book very much as well as War and Rememberance . I like the historical research done to support as the framework for these books . I like how he has created a character like Pug Henry that interacts with the key leaders and players of WWII during critical times . Excellent military detail.Now the bad . Take the Jastrows Rhoda and Briny and punch them all in the face until they are no longer stupid one dimensional characters . I realize that they exist to make poor decisions so that we can see the resulting evil of the Nazi 's but come on . It is almost as if Wouk does not respect his female characters they are so shallow and predictable . I have no use for Rhoda Henry who is really just an elitist Hoe . Her husband toils and works his ass off but she just ca n't rationalize enough for her own happiness . I ca n't believe that Natalie is an intellectual and brilliant making some of the dumbest remarks and decisions in the book just to be petulant and have her own way.Byron Briny just needs his ass kicked and told to man up . What a baby.Anyway for historical research excellent for shallow selfish petulant characters thunbs down . ",2
"There are lots of twists and turns as the pages progress . The characters bringing a somewhat familiar story to life keep interest high . Some parts are somewhat technical but add to the realistic mood at the time . Great book . ",4
"This is the best book I have read in a long time . It gives a great historical account of the early years of WWII that is completely factual save for the fictional characters Wouk inserts . This book is a pageturner yet still allows the reader to gain excellent information about real events and circumstances in the war . Wouk shapes his characters so fully that it makes it easy for the reader to empathize with them yet without any unnecessary detail . I feel this book is a great compromise for people who are interested in world events yet still enjoy a riveting fictional story . ",4
"Many years ago I saw a few episodes of the miniseries based on The Winds of War and enjoyed them at the time . I was out of the country though and did n't get to see the end . Later I spotted the print version in a used bookstore but decided against buying it because it was too bulky 898 pages and too dated . I wanted a quicker read and something more modern . Then a couple of weeks ago it appeared on Amazon Kindle for $ 3.99 so I decided to give it a try . Wow ! From the start I was mesmerized . Herman Wouk is a master storyteller and this narrative of the years building up to World War II based on seven years of painstaking research never wavers or slows down.Narrated in two voices that of a U.S. Navy captain who survived the war and a German general who was sentenced to life for war crimes the novel provides startlingly accurate glimpses of Hitler Stalin Roosevelt and Churchill . It follows the life and times of a career navy man involved in the planning of strategy as well as the retrospective analysis of a defeated German general . The book accurately captures not only the history of the time but also the daytoday life in Poland in Germany in Russia . We actually feel the panic and desperation of the Jews as they are surrounded in Warsaw and understand the futility of the allies as they see Hitler 's troops move across Europe in an unstoppable juggernaut of conquest and understand the frustration of the German general staff as Hitler makes catastrophic moves in Russia . Meanwhile in Washington we sit in on the war plans ' meetings with the naval captain and get the inside scoop of why Roosevelt acted as he did and why it took the U.S. so long to get involved.Others have already covered the compelling plot and great characters in this book so I will not repeat what has been done so well . I will add however that this is probably as good a deal as one likely to find on Kindle a week to ten days of truly enjoyable reading for $ 3.99 . I only regret that I waited this long . ",4
"This is the epic 850page story of the first years of World War II from just before the beginning of the war until just after the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor and the United States reluctantly joined the war . The story is told through the experiences of the Henry family which includes a naval capitain and his traditional navy wife their two sons a young naval fighter pilot and a submarine soldier who gets involved with a woman Jewish scholar and their daughter who works for a popular talk television show . The cast of characters extends beyond just the family to include a wide range of interesting characters on both sides of the war . Wouk does a neat job of placing the characters in situations that provide a multifaceted view of what was going on during the days when Hitler marched through Poland occupied France took on the English and then marched east to fight the Soviets . He even manages to situate Captain Victor Pug Henry so that he can give a firsthand view of what Roosevelt Hitler Stalin and Mussolini were up to.Wouk does an excellent job of portraying rich multifaceted interesting characters whom you come to know and care about . Some of them you like some you do n't but they 're all fully drawn and very believable . I especially like that he has several but not all strong women characters . Through these characters he tells the fascinating story of the early days of the war . Since I slept through history class in high school why do n't they teach it through historical fiction I wonder ? most of the details were new to me but I suspect even those with a better background would find this book full of interesting information . After reading this book I discovered from an English friend that English school kids are taught that the English won the war and I suspect the Soviets teach their kids the same thing . This book clearly has a US point of view and indicates that the Allies looked to the US to win the war . However Wouk left me with a lot of respect for the English and the Soviets for digging in and resisting for so long with insufficient supplies . Though I suspect that supplies are always insufficient in wartime . He also uses several devices to convey how the Germans interpreted the war which was useful . Overall I was left with a clearer sense of how difficult it is to interpret events as they are happening and to know how to act even if history makes it all seem so obvious in hindsight.There were times when I found it difficult to keep track of when things were happening and I sometimes had trouble following some of the fairly technical military situations despite wanting to understand . But I did learn a lot about military culture and the war and very much enjoyed learning it . I 've started reading the sequel the even longer War and Remembrance so I obviously think it 's worth another 1300+ pages . I want to find out what happens to the characters and how the details of the rest of the war played out . ",3
"First published in 1971 The Winds of War is aptly described on the cover as ` another splendid epic ' as well as being compared to Margaret Mitchell 's ` Gone With The Wind . ' Although such fulsome praise has often been used to describe various tomes this book deserves such high praise . It is actually the prologue to Wouk 's War and Remembrance and my tattered old edition is a 960pager at that ! If you are looking for something that seems to have died out recently namely a good oldfashioned read or a solid story then this is it . Despite being written over forty years ago there is no sense of being dated albeit some of the expressions might come across as quaint . The story concerns two families one Jewish and European the Jastrows and the other American and WASP namely the Henrys . Looming behind the tapestry of lives and loves interlinking is the horrific menace of World War 2 . The author is truly a gifted writer in that tackling a subject as monumental as a world war and trying to humanise both friends and foes is daunting . However this book is superbly written and keeps the reader glued to the pages . Each character brings a unique angle to this novel even those historical personalities usually relegated to the pages of history books . The stubbornness of elderly academic Aaron Jastrow who remains in Italy despite the imminent threat of Fascism and Mussolini 's pact with Hitler drags his niece the strongwilled and beautiful Natalie Jastrow right into the fray . Pug Henry a middleaged US Naval officer is dismayed to find his youngest son Byron not only gets involved with Natalie but marries her . When war breaks out she is stranded in wartorn Europe with her cantankerous uncle and a newborn babe . Pug has his own problems with a beautiful but bored and dissatisfied wife Rhoda who feels her husband has not achieved the career she had in mind for him . On an observer mission to Europe Pug himself finds himself attracted to a girl old enough to be his daughter.These human conflicts are somehow always uppermost in a story that never succumbs to the weightier issues of war and destruction . I enjoyed the way in which the author deftly creates an intimate viewpoint of the three pivotal characters of the war Franklin D. Roosevelt Winston Churchill and Hitler himself by having Pug Henry at different stages of the novel actually meet and interact with these men . Another interesting angle is Pug 's analysis of General Armin van Roon 's fictional account of the war and the motives and machinations behind Hitler 's various invasions and instances of both brilliance and bungling ineptitude . The author also provides a perceptive analysis of the psyche of the nations dragged into the war and this is a great help in understanding how and why so many people entered into and supported their leaders in what could only be the greatest folly of the century . The book can not of course adequately describe the unspeakable horror of the bombings the dreadful atrocities perpetrated in the death camps and many more occasions of wholesale slaughter but the author does an excellent job of describing these events without sinking into a mire of sentimentality or a ghoulish litany . The book ends as Pearl Harbour is bombed thus bringing the USA into a war that FD had successfully avoided in an effort to appease the warshy American public . The bombing of Pearl Harbour a momentous blunder on the part of Japan propelled the American giant into the war with a unanimous vote bar one . This is a truly satisfying experience for the readers who want to sink their literary teeth into something solid ! ",4
"I have read and reread this book in paper form several times . I purchased it for my Kindle to have an alternative to carrying around the heavy book my kindle weighs fall less than the book and I can change the font size as the day progresses . If you have never read this book before take an uptight navy Captain who while being strictly military is also a human being a son following in his footsteps and another son who is basically floating through life making as few waves as possible and a wife who loves her husband most of the time who is more ambitious for his advancement to keep up with the Jones . Add into this middleclass protestant world a Jewish devil may care girl who is worldly wise and living in Europe in the late 1930 's who does n't believe evil exists and who has an uncle who thinks that the war if it comes will not effect him since he is a famous author . Now add WWII to the mix and you have a hell of a story told by Mr. Wouk in full color . The story takes us into Germany before the US enters the War takes us to England where the war is raging to Russia during the war to the Pacific after Pearl Harbor . The sequel to Winds of War is War and Remembrance and should not be read out of sequence ! ",4
"War and Remembrance and Winds of War are the best examples of historical fiction I know of both of these books should be required reading in high school when students learn about WWII . The only thing missing is a companion reader that would include maps of the campaigns battles and engagements along with some other short narratives of the events . ",4
"The Winds of War ' along with its sequel War and Remembrance have been around for a long time . Still probably no other piece of historical fiction better tells the inside thinking and decision making of WWII 's major players . Told through the eyes of an extraordinary Naval Attache Pug Henry finds himself with the wars key decision makers during their most important decisions of WWII.The novel is also about the plight of the Jews in Europe leading up to and throughout WWII told through the eyes of Natalie Jastrow and her stubborn Uncle Aarron the novel shows just how easily the Jews of Europe were systematically gathered up and brought to the work camps where most were eventually gassed.The novels are both beautifully and horrifically written . Some of the finest historical fiction ever written ",4
"One of the top 10 books I 've ever read . Period . Should be on everyone 's reading list . Do n't forget the sequel War and Remembrance . Just as good . ",4
"This book is magnificant . I have seen the mini series many times and it was first rate but this book is better . I am not much of a fan of historical fiction but this is certainly an example of the best in the genre . I read this on my kindle and found it hard to put down.It is the story of the Henry family and the people who come into their orbit from just before the invasion of Poland to slightly after the attack on Pearl Harbor.There is Pug the professional military man who becomes naval attache to Germany his wife Rhoda daughter Madeline and sons Byron and Warren . Bryron is in Poland during the invasion and his experiences are harrowing . His love interest and future wife is Natalie Jastrow a spunky dynamic character who is living at her uncle 's posh estate in Italy . She is determined to go to a family wedding in Poland as tensions with Germany accelerate.Her Uncle Aaron Jastrow is a famed Jewish author living in Italy who sees Hitler 's ranting as typical anti semitism and is therefore not anxious to return to America.Pug writes a report on German war preparedness which gets the attention of FDR . This will result in him being sent to observe England during the Battle Of Britain and Russia after the German invasion . Pug will meet Hitler Stalin and Mussolini.He will see leaders in action as well as interacting with the ordinary people who lived in extraordinary times and who did great things including journalists military peoplebankers civil servants radio hosts etc . Waugh has created a marvelous tale which is true to history . He even includes a German General Staff member whose memoirs Henry edits . No short review can do justice to this marvel of a book on the greatest generation . ",4
"The Winds of War and War and Remembrance seemed like they 'd be perfect for meafter all Herman Wouk 's The Caine Mutiny is one my favorite books and World War II is one of my favorite wars . A messed up sentiment I know but the sheer scope of the action and the magnitude of the horrors make it endlessly compelling . Surely I figured if such a talented author who had so clearly hit the mark with his earlier shot at a smaller piece of it turned his considerable literary artillery towards such a fat target as the whole war the results would be satisfying.Instead these works ended up feeling scattershot and unfocused with sporadic brilliant explosions long periods of overconcentration on the easy unmoving targets and many misses when aiming at the moving targets.First an aside . I have issues with authors writing about authors they usually make fictional versions of themselves that one senses are nobler more popularly successful and more highly acclaimed with fewer human faults all around . Similarly former service members writing military books see Brown Dale Coonts Stephen Coyle Harold Griffin W.E.B . et . al . usually end up creating a franchise character whose astonishing military skills responsibilities and rocketlike career trajectory are one senses the inverse of the author 's own . To be fair it is n't just the exservice members who have done this Tom Clancy made his franchise character PRESIDENT for crying out loud.A lot of great authors will tell you great fiction starts from interesting charactersif you make them compelling and jagged then unpredictable things will happen when they bounce off one another . But surprisingly enough given Wouk 's own track record with The Caine Mutiny the characters here are franchise characters as bland as billiard balls . It seems like a regression . In that earlier book his military characters were lolling about in the backwaters indulging in strange but fascinating character defects they felt real . Whereas here his protagonist Pug Henry is rubbing shoulders with Roosevelt and Churchill and Hitler and Stalin skating through every theater of war without making any visible mistakes drinking without consequences and getting into compromising situations with attractive younger women without compromising himself . In the earlier Wouk war work the author character was manipulative and cowardly and borderline badin other words interesting . But here Wouk gives us Aaron Jastrow successful and wellknown and lovable guilty of nothing more than being an absentminded professoran eminently forgivable crime for a character but an atrocity for the author who relies on such a hackneyed stereotype when he 's capable of so much more.And what 's worse Wouk is using these characters to tell two barely connected storiesthe story of the U.S. Navy and the story of the Holocaust . One ca n't blame Wouk for being engrossed by these stories they 're endlessly fascinating and rich full of tragedy and human interest . But it causes a problem with some of the traditional virtues of story like unity of action . In actual fact the U.S. Navy had nothing to do with the end of the Holocaust and the Holocaust probably had little impact on the average sailor little of it was known during the war so all most people had was a true but vague sense that we were fighting some pretty bad people . However Wouk has contrived a plot line that does tie these events together at least for the main characters . Coupled with Wouk 's franchise character tendencies it makes for something far less even than the aforementioned literary artillery in fact it 's more the literary equivalent of a trick shot in pool there are a lot of improbable collisions and unexpected results but one knows it all depends on a very precise placement of all the balls at the outset a mechanical and inorganic situation that feels forced and unnatural unrealistic and unsatisfying . But the author puts so much work into this setup that he becomes overly enamored of it and so the characters end up talking far more than necessary about the strange collisions they 've experienced which only adds to the annoyancenot only do we get a trick shot but we get endless replays from every camera angle.Again this is a shame and not only because Wouk has proven himself capable of more . For there 's great stuff in here too truly masterful sections that one nearly loses amidst all the flashy and contrived situations the clattering collisions and ridiculous ricochets . An early scene in The Winds of War relating to a horse race in Italy is as good as anything Wouk 's written elsewhere and two later episodes in War and Remembrancea discussion of the Book of Job by a concentration camp inmate and few scenes relating to the use of that camp as a Potemkin village to fool visiting Red Cross authoritiesare also stunning and memorable.Given the fact that he had such good material in him it 's a shame he did n't just concentrate on that . Wouk originally planned this as a single work but reportedly realized it would have to be two volumes when he made it to 900 pages and still had n't gotten to the attack on Pearl Harbor he wanted to write about the whole war but found himself disproportionately drawn to the Holocaust . If he omitted every redundant mention that Aaron Jastrow had written a book called A Jew 's Jesus that was wellregarded and widely read he might have squeezed the story into a single volume but he 'd still have had the unity problem . A better division than prePearl Harbor and postPearl Harbor might have been to tell one story about the Navy and another about the Holocaustand since he 'd already told the perfect story about the former he could have just as well simply written an excellent novel about the slaughter of Europe 's Jews.Anyway if you have n't read The Caine Mutiny read that firstand if you have you might want to read it again rather than plowing through these . ",2
"You 're in for a long haul but it 's well worth it . I take on at least one epic every winter and picked Winds of War and it 's sequel War and Remembrance this year . I love historical fiction and these two books are some of the best . You 'll learn about WWII and still be able to wrap yourself around the characters whose family soon becomes a part of your life . There 's intrigue & suspense there 's action & very personal relationships as well and then there are the facts of WWII that will have you looking online for more information . These are powerful novels that really draw you in so much so that after I read Winds of War I was going to take a break and read something else between it and War and Remembrance but as I read the other book I kept wondering about what happens to these characters Wouk created . So I quit the break book and got right back on War and Remembrance . I 'm very glad I did . Both novels are such page turners that it 's darn near impossible not to want more . The two combined are close to two thousand pages but they read like a novel of several hundred . Good stuff ! ",4
"A good book but i did n't know there is a sequel . I do n't think I would have bought the first one . ",2
"The Winds of War and War and Remembrance must be read together . These lengthy novels follow the trials and travails of one American family through the years immediately preceeding the Second World War through to the end of that war . The author does a great job of depicting the terrors of the holocaust and of the ground war on Europe 's eastern front . Likewise pacific naval combat is dealt with on a personal level . The historical context of the books seemed to be quite accurate . By the close of the second book the reader will have an appreciation for the cost of global war . Personally I could have done with somewhat less of the romantic doubledealings and intrigue . My only other caution to the prospective reader is the daunting length of these books . I listened to the unabridged Audible Audio version of both books and found the narration to be excellent . ",3
"Natalie needs to be slapped back to reality . She is a dolt from the very start.Could a guy be buddies with Franklin Winston Stalin and Adolf ? No . I doubt he could even meet them in such a short frame of time.The love story between Pug and Pam.GreatByron and Natalie.boringWorth the read though . ",3
"Herman Wouk has a way with words and characterizations . The historical events and issues that lead to the U.S. entry into World War II are woven into the Henry family a military clan that the father Pug characterizes as tumbleweeds blown around by the wind . I found this very enjoyable . ",3
"I would have given this book four and a half stars ifit had been an option . It has a tinge of soap in placesbut that does n't detract from its impact in my opinion.I 'm rereading it particularly for the description ofByron in Poland during the German invasion . Mr Wouk meant towrite a large scale sweeping novel I 'm sure . Hischaracterizations do n't seem to me to suffer . ",4
"I did not like this book . I did not care for Wouk 's depiction of women in general as I tried to read the book . Consequently I did not finish this book.End of story . ",0
"Very interesting and enjoyable . A very skilled writer . I wish this writer would have written more nonwar books for as good as they are he is at his best writing about male female relationships . This writer even as a Pulitzer prize winner is underrated . I have listened to so many highly rated mediocre books on Audible it is a joy to find an author like this . I preferred his book Marjorie Morningstar . ",3
"As I sit here about to read The Winds of War for the umpteenth time it and War and Remembrance are my number one and two of 42 years of reading and collecting books.No other fictional novel can give you a more accurate account of the actual beginning of those years preceding the entrance of the United States into WWII than Winds of War . I know I am an amateur history buff of WWII the Vietnam Conflict and the American Civil War . Not only does Herman Wouk give us a history lesson but he also gives us a monumental story of love fear joy anger hope despair and tragedy.Two books not easily put down and a story surely never forgotten . ",4
"The first of two books that sets the stage for the Henry family during WWII . Be sure to purchase both books . The story will make more sense that way . A serious read yet one that will not put you to sleep . Wouk is a literary master at detail geography politics of the day and the drama surrounding his characters . ",4
"The Winds of War is a decent straightforward historical novel . It reminded me of similar books by authors like John Toland the characters witness essentially all events of historical moment so that the author can do the whole story and that evaporates most possible suspense about where the book 's going . It 's hard to work up tension over whether lend lease will pass in those circumstances you take the big events for granted . In many ways I find real history to be more surprising and suspenseful than novelizations of it.That being said Wouk 's choice to bring the novel only up to the American entry into the war was an adroit one . He orbits around his extended Henry family touching on its friends and acquaintances as is convenient for the outline of the warplot the personal stories have a flavor to them that makes sense in the context of America 's ambivalence about entering the fighting . For a historical epic sort of a novel that was a good decision.The other fun side of the book is the framing fauxhistory of the war from the perspective of a German army officer . Wouk makes van Roon a figure roughly comparable to Victor Pug Henry his America protagonist a staff officer at the planning level . Partly this lets the author present the German side of things but you would n't describe the effort as unbiased . Pug has translated van Roon 's post war recapitulation of events is the idea and some sly little asides sneak in along the way . Again there 's nothing really surprising about the stuff it 's just pleasantly well done by Mr. Wouk.If you enjoyed Winds of War or if you want to read books like it and ca n't decide which ones I would recommend two very readable history titles John Toland 's nonfiction titles with the glaring exception of Day of Infamy . The Rising Sun is probably Toland 's best general history though it 's only the Pacific theater . The War 19391945 edited by Desmond Flower . An amazing collection of first person accounts that span the war . No fictional contrivance can compare with the voices in this book not meaning any offense to the capable Mr. Wouk . This will keep you up very late at night . ",2
"The Winds of War and War and Remembrance had been sitting on my shelf unread for some time . At over 1000 pages each their length is imposing.The Winds of War is completely worth the time it takes to read . The story is engrossing the history is fascinating and the way Herman Wouk weaves relationships politics and military action is magnificent.This book is a must read for any military history buff but even for those who are not a fan of the genre I believe there is much that would keep you interested . The story is built around the Henry family a Navy family with three grown children who all have unique personalities and interests . While it takes place in the years leading up to the US military involvement in WWII the story really focuses on the lives of these five people and those they encounter along the way . Some of their encounters are with other fictional characters such as a famous radio personality a scientist and engineer involved in the development of nuclear weapons a British journalist and an accomplished author who happens to be Jewish . Other encounters are with historical people including big names from WWII Hitler Stalin Churchill and FDR . No matter who the encounter is with Mr Wouk keeps the novel a novel with interesting and welldeveloped dialogue.Through the course of the book the reader is presented with multiple perspectives on the war . The American viewpoint is prominent of course but through the characters interactions across the globe other views are featured . One unique way the German perspective is presented is by interspersing chapters of a fictional history of WWII written by a German officer von Roon which was translated by the main character Pug Henry along with commentary by Henry on what he agrees and disagrees with from von Roon 's account.Do n't be kept away by the length of this novel . It is well worth the time to read both for the history and for the story itself.Now on to War and Remembrance . From the reviews of this sequel I 'm sure I wo n't be disappointed ! ",4
"If you compare the older writers with the newer writers you can tell a distinct difference in their writing style . Older authors tend to utilize a wider range of the English vocabulary even at the expense of being a bit verbose . Newer writers are often times more succinct but also utilize a vary narrow vocabulary to explain ideas create characters and develop stories . Herman Wouk falls into the former category . His use of the English language is beautiful in a way that is lost in so many newer novels . His work has a similar style to other greats like Somerset Maugham Pat Conroy and James Michener . Particularly in Winds Of War he demonstrates his ability to maintain intricate stories with a diverse set of characters from all over the world into a cohesive plotline . And he does it with relish . With an expansive vocabulary he can entertain the reader with words and ideas that other authors could never imagine writing . Although Winds Of War may contain more factual information that expected it certainly adds to the authenticity of the story weaved through the timeless characters . Wouk is an exhaustive researcher and the quality of the detailed information rivals any textbook on WWII.I was never interested in WWII until I found this old book sitting on a shelf in our library . Now that I understand the magnitude of the effect the world war had on so many lives from so many countries and for so long I appreciate this period in history . There may not be another book in print better at engaging a reader into subtle interest in such a seemingly mundane topic.The many rewards Wouk received during his lifetime as an author were much deserved . I hope this novel can help more people who are disinterested in the history of WWII appreciate the timeperiod . ",4
"Herman Wouk has done a remarkable job of individualizing events in WWII by showing us through the eyes of one family what the impact of Nazism was at that time . Beautiful and moving ! ",4
"This book and it 's companion War and Remembrance are two of my favorite novels of WWII . I readreread them about every ten years . I find them exceptionally well written with clearly drawn characters who enter the traumic period of Western civilization 's march through the use of the industrial model for the destruction of millions of people and an end to traditional European colonial powers . I find myself caring about the characters their losses and how they delt with a world bent on destruction characters trying to balance traditional values while creating new beginnings from the ashes of a world focused on selfdestruction and death . I have read most of Mr. Wouk 's books and have been a fan of his writings for many years . You will not be disappointed . ",4
"Wonderful . You absolutely have to buy the sequel . ",3
"One of the most complete books I have ever read on WWII . He gives a perspective from the American English and even the German side . Some parts are difficult to read but I guarantee you will remember and understand more about that period of time then you knew . Well worth your time . And his character development is superb . ",4
"I believe this to be historically accurate explaining through the actions of fictitious characters how events led up to WWII . It is written so well ! It is exciting to read even if you do not want to know much about World War II . ",4
"In a recent WWII class in college I was assigned to read both Wouk novels and let me just say that this was not busy work . I found time for this classic and the story just enraptured me . An amazing work of genius and I am definitely going to purchase more of his novels . I recommend to anyone who wants to learn about WWII in a fun and easy to read way in addition to reading just for fun . ",4
"Finally read this book after all these years . It is probably the best fiction book on WWII that I have ever read . It was a slow read for me as I kept going back and looking up the facts of this war through out the book . Good characters descriptions flow etc.. everything you need for an excellent novel . ",4
"There 's a scene where Henry is taken to Tolstoy 's grave and one wonders if this is a conceit by Wouk but the comparison is not far fetched and maybe this novel is superior to War and Peace it 's certainly more readable . ",4
"The Winds of War is a bona fide 5 STAR book if there ever was one ! It is the Gold Standard of historical fiction of World War II.Some folks decided to trash the book based on an apparently highly flawed Kindle version or some badly mangled used books . These were not literary criticisms and the people probably should have sought an alternative method to register their valid complaints . Diluting the considered comments and thoughtful ratings of people judging the substance of the book is not fair to the author or to prospective readers.This book takes the reader on a sweeping historical journey from events leading up America 's involvement in the war . Our protagonist US Naval Captain Victor Pug Henry has a large adult extended family which is spread out across the globe and this allows Wouk to deal with prewar Nazi Germany the blitzkrieg of Poland the Battle of Britain Italy Stalin in Russia and finally Pearl Harbor.The characters and storyline are so good it leaves you aching for more . And he delivers more with the sequel War and Remembrance.For wonderful thoughtprovoking entertainment and a history lesson all rolled into one these 2 books are the best you can get ! John E. NevolaAuthor of The Last Jump A Novel of World War II ",4
"This book was a lively vibrant account of WWII from the perspectives of diverse welldeveloped characters . _Winds of War_ recounted the great historical events occuring from 193839 until the end of 1941 but presented them in a way that reflected believable sentiments real people felt at the time . The characters of the Jastrow family were particularly interesting for me who as a Jew try to understand the element in which they found themselves trying to escape Europe and how they responded to it.The protagonist an ambitious and succesful naval officer is the patriarch of the model naval WASP family . He maneuvers through the thickest power circles in his time with tact and ease and is really a lot of fun to imagine.Wouk basically conjures a bunch of extremely gifted characters some beautiful some brilliant and weaves them into a fascinating narrative of the most influential years of the 20th century.Historical fiction at its best if you want a fun yet accurate portrayal of WWII this is a good pick . ",4
"He 's a most utterly unappealing protagonist . Wouk wants us to think of Pug as a careerdriven very rigidly moral sort of person . Instead he came across to me as cold humorless stodgy somewhat hypocritical and very VERY boring . The few things Wouk has him do to make him less of a plaster saint drinks a bit smokes lusts in his heart after a young English woman did n't humanize Pug for me . By the end of the novel I found him about as likeable as Wouk 's other famous character Captain Queeg.That said the plot of the novel was engrossing and most of the other characters Including Hitler and Stalin ! were more interesting and entertaining than Pug.The definite highlight of the book is Wouk writing as the German General van Roon . It 's very convincingly done and it is in these sections of the book where what little sly humor Wouk offers is to be found . ",2
"I love Herman Wouk and really love this book . It should be required reading in history classes across the country . ",4
"This is a deservedly acclaimed novel of the events leading up to World War II . It 's famous for a reason it 's great literature . Wouk weaves real history and real people into a pageturning novel it 's a must read . ",4
"On first glance The Winds of War is an overwhelming book . At 885 pages 365879 words and taking place between March 1939 and December 1941 it 's both dense in size and in scope . As a comparison George R.R . Martin 's A Game of Thrones is 835 pages 292727 words . And yet I read it in three days.Essentially a tale of one familys involvment in the leadup to the US entering WWII The Winds of War is also a close look at the historical events in Europe the US and in part the Pacific that culiminated in the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor.The Henrys are a Navy family Victor 'Pug ' Henry is naval attache to Berlin and his wife Rhoda travels with him to Berlin . His grown children sons Warren and Byron and daughter Madeline are off making their own way in the world and Pug finds himself drawn into the war in Europe when he sends a report predicting the NaziSoviet nonagression pact which comes to the attention of President Roosevelt.Although The Winds of War is a dense intense book I found myself quickly addicted to the story . The characters were realistic and the writing very true to the era not in a way that dates the story but in a way that made me feel as if I was really there.This book also helped me to understand more of the politicial as well as historical aspects of the early part of WWII particularly in Europe . There are sections of the book which contain reports from a German officer which is translated and examined by Pug Henry but I confess I did n't find them relevant to the story and quite dry reading so I did skip them after attempting to read the first section.Part history part family saga I truly enjoyed The Winds of War . Despite the fact that I now have an aching wrist from holding this monster for three days I 'm already 300 pages into the next book War and Remembrance . So if you 're feeling brave and love good historical fiction The Winds of War is well worth the investment . ",4
"For me THE WINDS OF WAR combined with WAR AND REMEMBRANCE comprise Herman Wouk 's ultimate masterpiece . A sweeping telling of the World War II story from initial rumblings to Hiroshima all through the eyes of a US Navy commander . The two books combined make for a massive read but it 's well worth it . We must never ever forget the horror of the war the horrific fate of the Jews caught in it 's net and the brave men who willingly and yes gladly went off to fight enemies on both sides of the planet . They are dying daily and the world owes them a huge debt . Herman Wouk 's accurate and fair telling of the story will stand as a monument to all of them . These books can be read and read again then listened to in the excellent audio version they are that good . ",4
"I read The Winds of War many years ago and just reread it . I also got War and Remembrance and will reread that one . These two books are among my favorite books I have ever read . The books were well written and the characters are developed well along with an incredibly wellresearched history of WWII . I 'm sure I will read the books again and again and would recommend them to all readers . I do n't hand out 5 stars lightly . ",4
"Wouk wrote this book just as if he had personal knowledge of the U.S. Navy in WWII . He did and this is a very intelligent account of the way things were from a very qualified on several levels observer . ",3
"Winds of War is the fictional account of the family Henry and their adventures from 1938 through Pearl Harbor . Captain Pug Henry a career Naval Officer is sent to Germany to serve as Naval Attache in Berlin . There he meets all the big players Hitler Goering et al . He predicts the StalinHitler nonagression pact and gets called to the White House . There Roosevelt gives him an informal assignment that keeps him involved in myriad interesting developments leading up to the invasion of Poland then France the Battle of Britain and the invasion of Russia . Meanwhile his son Brian in Italy working for a Jewish author falls in love with the beautiful JewishAmerican niece who was engaged to an American diplomat who happens to be serving in Warsaw naturally Brian and Natalie are visiting her old friend Slote in Warsaw when the Germans attack . Meanwhile well you get the point.A popular miniseries was made of this book and its sequel War and Remembrance.This book is VERY historically accurate . All the events are true and one of the Henrys or their acquaintances are involved in one or more of them . This is a great read . Brilliantly told we work through the great events through the experiences of the characters . ",4
"I never tire of reading Herman Soul 's work . I loved the miniseries but the Noel is light years better . It is an outstanding work that takes the reader back to the dark days of the late thirties up to Pearl Harbor . ",4
"the absolute best WWII story I 've ever read . It is imposible to read this book without picturing Pug as Robert Mitchum . He is the perfect epitome of this character . If you 've never seen the TV miniseries or if you 've had then read the book . Unforgettable characters in a moment of history that changes the world . ",4
"Well written acted and filmed . Great story lines and you 'll learn history along the way ! Each of the Henry 's are intriguing and Wouk makes you care about them and those they love ! ",3
"My degree is in history and when I just want to relax historical novels fit the bill . this is a great book to accompany the cd 's ",4
"I feel like I stepped into the 1940 's and I was right ther with Pug and Rhoda . This is the most detailed and accurate novel on WWII that I have read.The charachers are so alive . This Navy family are scattered all over Europe and the US in WWII . You go from desk jobs to the trenches in Russia . Briney the youngest son marries a Jewish woman who is living in Siena Italy so you can guess where that leads.You read the horrors of Hitlers Final Solution . All the military planning and battles and the tender moments between husbands and wives.The Kindle edition did have many typo 's in it . I did report it and was assured that it is being corrected.This is a great read and it is so much easier to read on the Kindle as it is a BIG heavy book.I highly recommend it to anyone who loves WWII drama . ",4
"This along with War and Remembrance are the finest historical novels I have ever read about WWII . You will be totally engrossed in the pride passion tragedy and pain of real people caught up in the maelstrom of nations at war . ",4
"This is a 5star book that should read by anybody with an interest in WW II . The comments and complaints regarding sexism and poor female characters well the book was published in 1971 . Compare it to some of the other fiction being published at the time Ian Fleming John MacDonald Robert Heinlein . Wouk comes of pretty well in comparison to those authors I think especially as his subject is war . Despite this Wouk still constructs some fascinating female characters and not all of them are brilliant easy to sympathize with or even very smart . But then again neither are the men.It 's a long story a bit melodramatic at times will infuriate you and bring tears to your eyes . Which was what Wouk set out to accomplish . ",4
"The & # 8220Winds of War & # 8221 is the first in a twobook historical fiction series chronicling World War 2 as seen through the eyes of five members of the Henry family . As a word of warning this is an long book but a rewarding one if you can immerse yourself into the setting and characters of this volatile period when world war was not some abstract history lesson but a frightening reality impacting millions of families around the world ! Victor & # 8220Pug & # 8221 the father is in his late 40 & # 8217s with dreams of commanding a battleship and eventually making admiral . Rhoda the mother is a few years younger and caught up being the wife of career naval officer . Warren is in his 20 & # 8217s with aspirations to fly planes in the Navy . Bryon is in his 20 & # 8217s also with his head in the clouds but it is more of journey as he drifts about trying to find his way in the world . Finally there is Madeline who is 19 at the beginning of the story and she finds herself stuck in a college she doesn & # 8217t enjoy.Towards the end of the novel we read the Henry & # 8217s are a & # 8220family of tumbleweeds & # 8221 and the & # 8220winds of war have been blowing them all around the world. & # 8221 This is a vivid description and helps set the stage for how one or more members of the Henry family always seemed to be in the thick of things to include the invasion of Poland the bombing of London the German offensive into Russia and the surprise attack on Pearl Harbor.What I really enjoyed about the novel is the way in which Henry Wouk wraps historic events into a compelling romantic family drama . He did a masterful job of drawing you into the story and more importantly into the feelings and conflicts that arose during this time . The novel exposes you to events of WW2 and provides a glimpse of life as seen from German Polish British Russian Japanese and American perspectives.Wouk & # 8217s attention to detail and historic accuracy really impressed me throughout the novel . I often found myself wondering & # 8220did that really happen the way he wrote it ? & # 8221 Every time I looked up things such as the staged Polish attack on Germany the importance of earning your & # 8220dolphins & # 8221 in the Navy the casualty counts for the United States the Einsatzgruppen special action units that had no military purpose etc . I found these things to be true . In the Kindle version of the book there is a & # 8220Preface to the First Edition & # 8221 where Wouk does mention & # 8220World Empire Lost & # 8221 is a fiction but it is based on historical German literature and perspectives . ",4
"Interesting premise and generally historically accurate particularly for a novel . Some archaic wording but of course this was written in the literary style of a half century ago . Wouk could have left out the romance parts which is clearly not his strong suit but I 'd recommend this book as an easy yet informative read . ",2
"Extremely insulting that no one ever proof reads books after conversion to kindle format . While the kindle edition appears to have undergone some clean up after so many negative reviews for a chapter to have Bearl Barbor as the title is beyond belief . There are many other conversion errors with improper character recognition but I did not track those . A few problems with hyphenation also remain where the printed edition used hyphenation as a means to wordline wrap but the after conversion to kindle the hyphen is no longer appropriate since the line wrap occurs at a different point in the line . There are a few graphics from the printed version also scanned into the kindle edition and therefore of poor quality . Can only imagine how bad War and Remembrance kindle edition must be since that title has been unavailable for many months while awaiting correction . ",0
"Had to have it for my Kindle . Saw the miniseries back in the 80s loved the book too so had to have another copy . Thanks ! ",4
"This is the story about the years and events leading up to the Second World War looking through the eyes of one family and their friends . Wonderful book . ",4
"I have read this and War and Remembrance every year for the last 25 years . Each time I learn something new . I really like how the books works the story around real history . ",4
"Winds of War is a truly great work . I enjoyed it immensely and can see why Herman Wouk won a Pulitzer for it . ",4
"I had a hard time putting the book down to do some work . Wonderfully writtengreat characters and the . Best plot . ",4
"Despite the fictional characters I believe this book to be among the best sources available to get a sense of the world of the 1940 's . As a baby boomer I grew up among many adults who were directly or indirectly involved in World War II . Herman Wouk has captured the values and views of that generation in a way that no future novelist one who was not an eyewitness to those times will ever be able to do . The Henry family whose lives are traced through this book typify the straightforward Americans of that day . This book ought to have won a Pulitzer . Oh and finally in case none of the other 37 reviewers mentioned it for inquiring minds Wouk rhymes with oak . ",4
"The Winds of War by Herman Wouk was one of the best books I have read in a very long time . I have just ordered War and Remembrance because I finished the latter today and need to continue with the story . The first half of the story the first book was a bit slow at first and I was reluctant to continue on however it soon picked up pace and I could n't put it down . The story was heartrending and I became sympathetic to all of the main characters and felt disdain towards the antagonists just as the protagonists felt . I recommend this book to anyone who loves America and the struggle to gain freedom in a time when hope seemed far in the distance . This book will enliven the American spirit . I am sure that War and Remembrance will be just as wellwritten as The Winds of War and I look forward to reading how the character 's lives end up . Read This ! ",4
"Captain Victor Henry of the US navy is seconded to the US embassy in Berlin where he and his high strung wife Rhoda are immediately invited to a diplomatic reception . They are introduced to Hitler and members of the nazi hierarchy and so this historical epic begins . Revolving mainly around their two sons Byron and Warren the story takes us from the bombing of Warsaw to that fateful december morning at Pearl Harbour . When Victor Henry submits a report to his superiors predicting a secret pact between Russia and Nazi Germany and is proved correct his presence is immediately requested at the White House . From then on Roosevelt is impressed with what he sees and asks him to be his informal watchdog in Berlin and to keep his eyes and ears open . drop him a line every now and then . It is an assignment Victor Henry accepts with misgivings . The author weaves a convoluted tale of Pug Henrys meetings and confrontations with such historical figures as Roosevelt Churchill Mussolini and even Stalin . I learnt more here about major european battles and the background political drama than I ever learnt at college . It also captured the complicated politics of the time and explained the unlikly pact Hitler made with the soviets their supposed arch enemies.It also dwelt in quite some detail with the intricacies of lendlease which many americans were against at the time . Also with the fictional device of a memoir written by a retired wehrmacht general we are given a german perspective on the war and their reasons for its outcome . The germans Henry tells us laconically have a habit of blaming other countries for getting invaded by them . I had to nod in agreement at captain Henrys comment when asked by Roosevelt what he thought of Hitler & amp Stalin . Henry 's reply was that from his perspective most presidents and primeministers were more alike than they were different . Aint that the truth . The story also includes the romance anguish pain and suffering of war and all that entails . I also liked how the author descibed the ambience of the time . The streets of London and Berlin and Washington . What woman were wearing . What people were eating . It all just helped to create a more effective story . Give it a go even if you havent read a historical novel before you just might be surprised . ",3
"This book along with it 's companion War and Remembrance are so full of vivid history . I learned from these books more about WWII including what led up to it than any history class documentary or history book could ever provide.On top of all this history is a touching tale about a military family that suffers the highs and lows of personal events romance divorce death etc . while rubbing elbows with all the great names of that time.The authors descriptions of some of the battle scenes The German defeat of the French are so real that I felt I had experienced them first hand . This should be required reading for any WWII history class . ",4
"The Winds of War is a novel of the events leading to World War II told through the eyes of an American Naval family and their acquaintances . It is written by Herman Wouk based on his wartime experiences and his research.Commander Victor Pug Henry is considered an officer with a bright future . He is a methodical careful engineer with plenty of blue water in his service record . His family consists of his wife Rhoda their daughter Madeleine and two sons Warren and Byron Briny.Commander Henry wants nothing more in life but to reach the rank of Captain and command a battleship . He has worked systematically towards this goal for his entire career . Beneath that taciturn exterior is a deep intellect coupled with presence of mind . He has made no missteps in his career . However the next assignment offered to him does n't thrill him.The U.S. Navy had historically sent it 's less promising officers to diplomatic posts . In these days before WWII this policy is reversed . Pug is offered the post of Naval Attach & eacute to Germany . This is Germany under Adolf Hitler and the post is considered crucial . However in Pug 's eyes it is possibly a career deadend . Nonetheless after consulting his socialite wife Rhoda and an Annapolis classmate he takes the job.Pug 's elder son Warren is cut from father 's mold careerwise . Like his father he has excelled at the U.S . Naval Academy . He has chosen aviation as his specialty . The younger son Byron is another story.Byron is an undisciplined romantic dreamer slackertype who has somehow made it out of Columbia with a B.A . He also got a reserve naval commission in order to placate his father . When the book begins he is working for a bestselling author Prof. Aaron Jastrow in Siena Italy as researcher . It 's obvious he has ` something ' but he lacks that certain spark . This amiable drifter finds direction in his life when he falls in love with Professor Jastrow 's niece Natalie.The romance is complicated by a number of things . She is older . Natalie is in love with someone else an old money East coast establishmenttype diplomat Leslie Slote . She barely acknowledges Byron 's existence . Finally Natalie is Jewish.The last is a relationship killer in preWWII America . At this time a WASPJewish marriage was socially looked down upon . Jews and Gentiles had their own separate worlds.This woman gives Byron from his ` spark ' . Like his father Byron Henry gets what he wantsWhile in Germany Commander Henry files a report going against conventional wisdom . This report makes its way up through the chain of command to the President of the United States . He returns it with a note to forward Victor Henry 's service record.Victor Henry has come to the personal attention of the President of the United States of America.I 've only scratched the surface of what happens in this book . This book and its sequel War and Remembrance is about WWII and its effects on this most American family . Mr. Wouk cleverly arranges things in order to involve his characters in the different events and theaters of world as they lead up to Pearl Harbor.Close attention is paid to the Jewish experience in Europe as well as the thoughts events and personalities of those in the corridors of power.The book is a pageturner . While it is not great literature it is engrossing and the most painless way I know of to study the events leading up to WWII . ",3
"This great novel is the best description of World War II that the average person will ever find . You could read Churchill 's Memoirs as I have or Max Hastings nonfiction Overlord . You would have to read at least a dozen nonfiction books to get the story . I have probably read 50 books on World War II . I have also read Winds of War a dozen times . Pug Henry is the observer and minor participant that has been used by many other historical novelists . WEB Griffin is an enormously popular writer of novels on World War II . I have read them all . He is excellent at characterization . Wouk is better . There are many excellent novels about World War II that have been forgotten . Leon Uris wrote several of them and they are excellent . Wouk is better . If you want the story of World War II in one story read this novel and the sequel War and Remembrance . I have read each of them many times . There is no better way to get the whole story . I have amused myself with looking up the stories of the real characters he includes . They are all real and he does them justice.There is no better way to start the study of World War II . ",4
"This review is written for Winds of War and War and Remembrance together . Although two separate books they are really two halves of the same story and really need to be considered together . These books may not be Mr. Wouk 's finest books but they are his finest story and most encompassing work.These books really can be read for three different reasons First as a story of a family and to effects of World War II . Second as a war story of Sailors in World War II . Third as a comprehensive history of World War II.This book is a story of a family . It tells of a husband and wife their three sons and their daughter as well as all the love interests involved with these characters . Throughout the two books we follow the all of these characters as they interact with each other and those around us . We get to see the effects of the war on their personal and professional lives as well as the effects of the war on their relationships.This book is a war story . Many of the characters are directly involved in the war was U.S. Navy Sailors in the war . Most of those characters that are not serving in the military are still directly involved in the war as diplomats war correspondents and other direct or indirect participation . We see many of the major battles as well as some of the inner workings of politicians and diplomats.Finally this book is a comprehensive history of World War II . Mr. Wouk puts a comprehensive treatise on World War II from the perspective of a German military officer between narrative chapters . Additionally because many of the character are involved with the politics and diplomacy of the war we get a view of the way it affected society as a whole and the purpose of individual battles.Finally one last note of caution . This book is a powerful book . It takes place in World War II some of these characters are Jewish some of these characters are serving in the military . Some of these chapters will be sad . This book is still amazing and worth reading but should be approached with this in mind . ",4
"Well written and best book on how WWII came to be and all of the key leaders and their personalities . ",4
"I loved the miniseries so decided to give the book a go . The TV series covered all the most important things from the book but as usual there is much detail in the book that there was not time for in the series . This book is a good bet for anyone who loves an engrossing story about a very important time in the history of mankind . I learned a great deal that I never knew before and I fancy myself somewhat of a history buff . Highly recommended . ",4
"I have seen the movie and I wanted to read the book.All I can really say very informative and an excellent read ! Enjoy and remember ! ! ! ! Joannie ",4
"I think all deep thinking adults should read this book to help insure that this can never happen again . Wouk is a super writer . ",4
"I 've read many WWIIrelated novels and works of nonfiction over the years . Therefore I 'm somewhat surprised it took me this long to arrive at Herman Wouk . Winds of War is a sweeping magnificent epic that captured me in a way few novels do.Herman Wouk tells the story of a fictional USN family as the events leading up to America 's entry into war cast them hither and yon . London Berlin Moscow Pearl Harbor New York City Rome Manila and Washington DC all figure prominently as do the leaders of each Axis and Allied country.Having read much about WWII I especially enjoyed Wouk 's flawless chronology and the detail with which it was adorned . Indeed one could absorb a better understanding of the WWII event timeline from Winds of War than from many nonfictional accounts.I do most of my reading at night before sleep . Winds of War had me looking forward to bedtime on my commute home from work . I loved this book . I loved it 's character formation it 's pace it 's geographical range and it 's towering level of suspense . Every ingredient required for a memorable epic is present in an impeccable weave.Winds of War rates 5 stars and more . ",4
"A must read for any history buff . The book elicits revelations and looks into the feel and culture of the American people . This book made reading about the coming of WWII a breeze . ",4
"Wouk does a magnificent job of providing the background of the US prior to our comittment in World War Two . ",3
"This is the first of two books recounting the story of an American family during the period just prior to and then throughout the Second World War . If we could take the real history away from it altogether a compelling fictional drama would still remain . To mix this invented family saga in with that of the war means that we have a novel of another order altogether.In this first novel we are taken inside Hitler 's Berlin and allowed to see the inner workings of the regime as experienced by Victor ` Pug ' Henry a senior American naval attach & eacute and the story 's main hero . Slowly we are introduced to his family and we follow them as they become dispersed in different corners of the planet in preparation for the coming conflict . At the same time we are given the necessary background to the American political arena of the period as Pug becomes drawn into the unique role as the President 's unnamed and therefore secret military aide . He is subsequently sent to all the major scenes of political influence in the Allied Command a device which not only works well for the plot but gives the reader a very wide reach beyond what one feels is the normal grip of propaganda . It 's another reason I like the book it is about a war in which the truth was continuously bent during and afterwards by all and sundry albeit for different reasons . It is good do be able to feel such confidence in the integrity of Wouk the author as he reports to us through the eyes of Pug Henry.In addition to the ordinary some would say far from ordinary events occurring in the lives of his characters Wouk sets the stage for the second book 's main story which is that of the Jewish ghetto known as Theresienstadt.This is a major work of fiction and I would argue a major work of history as well . Our understanding of a period in which so much false information was produced can only be enhanced by a work in which right from the beginning we are not asked to believe that everything stated is true . We are then left to see for ourselves what sort of world this was half a century ago and the clarity and openness of the text leaves us in no doubt . ",4
"I read this many years ago and thought I would like to read again but remembered too much of the story so I did n't finish the second reading . I highly recommend this excellent story to anyone interested in the World War II era . Not only does the story explain much of the politics of the time but also tells the story of several very interesting families caught up in the struggle . Highly recommended . ",4
"I first read the novel 35 years ago . I was entranced by Wouk 's human characterizations and his grasp of history . He allows you to BELIEVE in the story . I probably have it all memorized by now but I still grab a read now and then . Definitely 5 stars . ",4
"This book was so good that it caused me to slack off on my studies . I do n't normally read too much fiction but a friend who is a fellow WWII buff recommended it and I 'm glad I took him up on it . The story follows US Naval Captain Victor Pug Henry and his family in the years leading up to WWII . The characters are all intriguing and lifelike and Wouk 's storytelling ability is second to none . Not only is there plenty of romance intrigue and suspense but I found the book to be very nuanced as well . This is no onedimensional patriotic hack job . The historical background of the book is incredibly sharp and you can actually learn quite a bit of real history even while being highly entertained . Whether it 's through Pug or his son Byron or any one of the other characters the book takes the reader through prewar Nazi Germany Poland under Blitzkrieg London in the Battle of Britain Italy Portugal Russia and ending at Pearl Harbor . Pug manages to find himself in some high places rubbing elbows with quite significant individuals . I particularly liked the way that Wouk just kind of snuck in historical details into the conversations of the characters so seamlessly . 'The Winds of War ' is truly an American epic and a highly addictive one at that . ",4
"A reader does not need to have a special interest in war stories to enjoy this novel along with its continuation in War and Remembrance . This is a very wellwritten story that puts a personal face on World War Two . Even though The Winds of War adn War and Remembrance is one coherent stroy covering over 2000 pages the story never bogs down . Spans events from the leadup to the end of the war and follows the main characters all over the world . Wouk does a great job of writing from various perspectives.The history seems to be fairly accurate with some necessary literary license taken to covey the sheer volume of information required as the backdrop for the main characters . You would n't read this to replace history works but it really humanizes the events of the war . ",4
"This was a great way to understand more about the war and enjoy rereading the book after seeing the movie on netflix . ",4
"I consider this book one of the greatest books ever written . Sometimes I had to put it down as it was too hard to take the awful events of World War II . I loved it . ",4
"I try to read anything written by this author and this book did not disappoint . His character development is clear and the timelines are consistant with the historical events he refers to in the story . Overall entertaining and as with his other books hold your attention . My one complaint would be that it takes almost the entire book for the obvious to be stated by the main characters . ",4
"I have read this book several times before and I also have it on dvd . Great book ca n't say enough about itglad i have it on my kindle nowgoing to read a different book now to get a break and then i will get the war and rememberance another great book ",4
"I may be one of the last people to read this book and I never saw the movie but I am glad I read it . The book was a great mix of factual information from the time period interspersed with interesting characters . I am looking forward to reading War and Remembrance next . ",4
"This Book on CD 's is terribly disappointing . The CD 's do n't play well in my car CD player the player either skips ahead to future tracks or skips back to previous tracks or even occassionally to another CD . In addition the CD 's are packaged so poorly that the plastic binders that hold the folders for the discs come apart readily when you try to turn to unplayed CD 's or when you try to put back CD 's and have now ripped out of the base on the container . The product seems like a counterfeit product produced in a back alley in Bejing or Hanoi with poor cheap materials . Extremely disappointing ! ",0
"Not much that I can add that has not been said many times.A classic that has stood the test of time and finding new fans every year . Familydramasexmurder lust and love done at it 's best . ",4
"PLEASE read this book and you will never never forget it . You will be so grateful it was written and that you found it ! It truly is a lifechanging read ! ! ! Ah the romance the grandeurthe history that we kinda thought we knewit all comes togetherand the characters are simply my alltime favoritesand I am a READER ! ! ",4
"Great story line following a military family through the war years . Following the war as it happened using the imaginary family brought more of the feeling of the times . H. Wouk gets gold stars . ",4
"I enjoyed the way this book gave me a glimpse of how the war affected a family . Pug Henry is a character you find your self rooting for . I could have done without some of the other characters . Good solid read . ",3
"I first read this book in 1972 . It is the story of a military family from 1939 through 1941 and the attack on Pearl Harbor that brought us into the war . Very readable and meticulously researched the characters in the book have become like treasured ancestors . I just finished my 4th reading of the book . ",4
"The book clarified some of my misconceptions about the events leading to the second world war . Creation of a story makes the reading of history much more interesting . I really enjoyed reading it . ",3
"Herman Wouk 's book The Winds Of War is near perfect . The twelve years of research Mr. Wouk put into this book is a historical fiction lover 's dream . He somehow manages to take a lot of dry information and turn it into fascinating ca n't put down reading . I came away from this book with a better and clearer understanding of WW2 than I have ever had before.The Henry family are the main characters of the story with Captain Victor Pug Henry a Naval Officer as the head of it . None of the characters are really all that well fleshed out there is just way to much going on in this story for there to be time to go too deep but it all seems to work to make a very enjoyable and fascinating story that is hard to put down.This is definitely a ca n't put down book but I actually found myself taking my time to read it and savor it because I did n't want it to come to an end . This is a huge book 1056 pages but I did n't find any part of it that dragged at all . I am so happy there is a sequel . Even after reading this 1000 plus page book I am ready to dive right into the second equally large book about the Henry family and the continuation of WW2.This is one of those special rare books that only comes along once in a long whilebooks you wish you could read again for the first time . ",4
"The Winds of War has almost everything in it action love adventure espionage intrigue and it manages to tell a story within a historical context that will hopefully lead readers to the appreciation of history itself . The greatest strength of the book is in Wouk 's style and in his magnificent main character Victor Pug Henry who gets to be in the right place and at the right time to provide us with the best parts of this novel . Anothe strong important character is Nathalie Jastrow the Jewish girl who finds herself trapped in Europe when the war erupts . I did not care much for the extremely benign portrayal of President Roosevelt the White House 's policy toward the Jews remained unchanged throughout his mandate so I can not see him as some sort of closetchampion of the Jews . Another character who got in my nerves was Aaron Jastrow . This one was stupid obstinate blind to the danger looming over him and his family and too convinced of his own scholarly achievements to see past his arrogance . True many Jews were like that did n't leave Europe in time and paid dearly when the nazis got to them but Jastrow 's character felt like nails on a blackboard not at all pleasant . As a counterpoint authors do not have to write only about pleasant characters . Still this book moves fast entertains and informs . Wouk seems to have a fartoorosy idea of the US Navy and of the US at war but that is understandable and who knows he may be right and I am probably wrong . His book though will leave you wanting more and for that stay tuned because War and Remembrance is on the horizon . ",4
"I 'm still recovering from my exhaustive trek through Herman Wouk 's 2part WWII magnum opus including The Winds of War and War and Remembrance . I bought them a few years back for my boyfriend and finally around early December I got around to diving in myselfjust in time for Pearl Harbor Day 2012.Now we are talking 2000+ densely packed pages read in 2 months read back to back . I could n't put either book down and read during breaks at work and straight thru the weekends . But what an amazing journey ! Wouk 's genius is his gift for providing expansive period and place details and dialogues between a dynamic cast of characters in a syntax that lets all the plays and players ebbs and flows so evenly and engagingly . He brilliantly weaves fact and fiction together seamlessly and believably.WOR covers the time from Hitler 's rise and rule in 1938 to the attack on Pearl Harbor . The centrifugal force of the books is the ficticious naval Henry family and how they all navigated through this cataclysmic epoch both individually and collectively . The paterfamilias Victor Pug Henry is a career navy officer whose duties throughout the 2 novels take him from Washington to Berlin Moscow London Stalingrad Tehran Hawaii and the South Pacific . His 2 sons also members of the service endure their own challenges presented by the demands of war . His only daughter elected a stateside career in TV and broadcast in New York adding cosmopolitan dash to the sibling roster.Interwoven throughout both novels are excerpts from writings by a German Weirmacht officer offering the German viewpoint of the events leading up to the war and perspectives on the GermanTeutonic personae that created Hitler and galvanized the Reich . In addition to all the side stories of the Henry family as expected there is the Jewish story personified in Natalie Jastrow and her uncle Aaron Jastrow a famous American author and former Yale professor who lives in Italy and whom Natalie works for as a researcher . She is also the love interest of Byron Henry Pug 's youngest son who eventually becomes his wife . They of course become ensnared in the horrors of Nazi antisemitism.WAR covers the time period from Pearl Harbor to Hiroshima which he only touches on briefly and the end of the war . Pug Henry meets and interacts with them allHitler Stalin Roosevelt Churchill Eisenhowerin this amazing historical panorama of events that shaped our present world.Epic masterful storytelling does n't get much better than this and I am grateful that I made the leap and took the time to make this journey . ",4
"Wouk 's The Winds of War is a wonderful piece of historical fiction . Following the Henry family in their international travels in the lead up to World War II the author 's extensive research enables him to use this familial narrative as a context for providing the reader with a history of the events that lead up to the break out of WW II . The characters are unpredictable and realistically threedimensional . The book was so good I eagerly took up its sequel War and Remembrance the moment I finished it . Highly recommended . ",4
"I was enthralled by The Winds of War when it was released in the early 1970 's and enjoyed the miniseries with Robert Mitchum and Ali MacGraw in the early 1980 's . A couple of years ago I found a tattered paperback in a second hand bookstore and enjoyed reading it again . About the same time cable TV screened the miniseries over a week and I was enthralled again.This book and the sequel War and Remembrance are Wouk 's largest fictional works and give a comprehensive coverage of many of the major events before and during WWII . The Winds of War tells the story of the lead up to WWII through the eyes of Navy Commander Victor Pug Henry who is appointed Naval Attache in Berlin 6 month 's before Hitler 's invasion of Poland in September 1939 . He travels widely throughout Europe as President Roosevelt 's unofficial eyes and ears in Europe meeting most of the key players during those tumultuous times . During this time Pug begins a platonic but very close and borderline romantic relationship with Pamela Tudsbury daughter of a famous British radio personality.This book and War and Remembrance are classic novels about WWII . Wouk devoted thirteen years of extraordinary research and long arduous composition to these two memorable novels.Since moving to Kindle format I am slowly gathering copies of my favourite books for my Modern Classics Kindle Library . This book certainly gets a place in that library and I am waiting for better pricing before adding War and Remembrance . Last week I added all 6 volumes of Churchill 's memoirs of the war to this library when they were a Kindle Daily Deal for $ 1.99 . The world of the Kindle really is a marvellous place.I also enjoyed Wouk 's 1990 's books The Power and The Glory about the establishment of Israel and the 1967 Six Day War and the 1973 Yom Kippur War . After that I assumed that Wouk had retired but was astounded to find that at the age of 97 he will publish a new novel in NovemberThe Lawgiver about the life of Moses . I preordered it immediately . ",4
"Insightful read although fiction based on historical facts . Great perspective from career naval family . Refreshing to see honor truth and family hailed as the ultimate purpose for this family . Although not hailed as a love story you ca n't help but feel the deep love this family has for each other and our great country . ",4
"This sprawling epic follows a group of fictional characters a family through a painstakingly researched recreation of the events leading up to the Second World War in Winds of War the first volume and up through the end of the war in the second volume War and Remembrance . The historical sequence the actions of world leaders and the events of the war are detailed and factual but the main characters and their places in those events are fictional . It 's a brilliant device to bring the history we think we know to life and grounds momentous events in the humanity of individuals trying to cope with the total upheaval of a worldwide conflict and the unimaginable horror of events like the rise of Hitler the Pearl Harbor attack the Atomic Bomb and the Holocaust.The Audible production is truly a masterful interpretation of a masterwork primarily due to the monumental work of Kevin Pariseau . He handles a huge cast of characters with a m & eacutelange of accents Russian British German Yiddish Italian French several American dialects and more with convincing ease but it was the singing as multiple characters that put the icing on it for me . When Udom sang to the crowd at Theresienstadt before being sent off on the train to Auschwitz it tore my heart out.I read these books to gain a deeper grasp of my father 's generation of the sacrifices they made and of the events that shaped their world view . I came away with so much more than that . My faith in humanity was restored.The Winds of War ",4
"I just recently read Winds of War and its sequel War and Remembrance . They were both excellent novels . Wouk strikes me as a talented writer who employs all the technical tools of his tradesuch as using letters excerpts from a military analysis fictional to help lend depth to his characters and a framework for the events of the novel.Winds of War in particular grabbed me and by the end I was frantic to get to the sequel to find out what happens to the Henry clan . I agree with another reviewer who writes about the steady developement and changes to Byron and how believeable it is . A great read both of them I would also recommend for similar novels albeit different periods A Soldier of the Great War and Killer AngelsOne final note you may want to pause bw reading the two novels as I found towards the latter third of War and Remembrance that I was getting tired of the book but I read the two back to back over the course of three weeks . ",4
"The Pulitzer winning author The Caine Mutiny Herman Wouk wrote the great 885 page The Winds of War other War and Remembrance.Wouk used rich character development and the reader easily develops deep empathy with the main characters in this novel . Also famousinfamous people like Hitler Stalin President Roosevelt Admirals King Halsey and Yamato and more plus great history add to this novel . Wouk mixes fictional characters real people and events very well.We see the central character Commander Victor Henry being assigned Naval attache duties in Berlin Moscow and England to gather intelligence info for President Roosevelt . His wife supports him but eventually has an affair . His oldest son becomes a naval aviator stationed on the Enterprise . His youngest son becomes a Submariner officer and his daughter becomes a radio talk show helper.Eventually captain Pug Henry gets his dream assignment as Captain of the battleship California only to see it sunk in Pearl Harbor by the Japanese before he can take command.Briny his submarinerEnsign son gets a commendation and his gold Dolphins and saves torpedoes and supplies from the wreckage at Pearl . Plus Briny marries a Jew who has their baby son . The baby wife and her famous author Uncle are trapped in Europe by Hitler 's Gestapo threatened and ca n't get out . His son Warren the naval aviator serves on the Enterprise and is shot down and injured at Pearl Harbor.I wo n't continue and ruin this great action packed and interesting true history novel for you . Also some insight into the mind of one of Hitler 's top Generals . Lots of prewar intelligence gathering by captain Pug Henry and a colorful painting of WW2 militarycountry leaders.Anyone interested in a great story with great characters plus true interesting preWW2 history will love this book . 5 stars plus and proudly added to our family library.I just started reading Wouk 's second part book War and Remembrance with many of The Winds of War characters . I 'll review . ",4
"I 'd heard so much about this book and all of it rang true.This is a truly epic classic American story lined with history intrigue and wisdom . You 'll love it male female young or old . ",4
"The events leading to the Second World War are as fascinating as the events of the War itself and infinitely more complex and consequential than any work of fiction . Wouk and his researchers have provided us with a marvelous gift in this book which presents a cleverly developed fictitious tale set among ALL of the major events and players of this real life drama.I am writing this review in March of 2008 . The US is experiencing multiple financial crises in the housing credit and energy markets . We are at war with seemingly unobtainable goals . We are witnessing a baffling and discouraging presidential contest . Terrorism seems to rule nearly every aspect of our lives and even so we are one of the safest nations on Earth in other words it is much worse in other places . . . .. All of that stated March of 2008 looks like a cakewalk compared to nearly any place in the world in the late 1930 's and early 1940 's when fascist and socialist and imperialist politics rapidly developing war technologies the last vestiges of old world European colonialism and the overwhelming power of racism antiSemitism among others combined to change the maps of nearly every major power and realign the world for the time not yet ended . This masterful work of fiction sheds a fascinating light on the rise of this war while also providing a great story.About the fiction of this work Wouk invented an interesting family whose characters all taken together are present for active roles in just about every major event of the coming war . As such this is like a modern Shakespearian classic we are treated to the very human actions and emotions of legends good and bad through the eyes of Pug Henry and his family . What a hell of a book . At some regrettable points the book borders on sappy and some and I stress only a few scenes are just not believable like Warren Henry being shot down over Pearl Harbor and dropping in at his house to see the wife before snagging another plane and getting back in the fight . These missteps are few and forgivable . The characters are universally flawed which is a refreshing departure from the typical pop fiction approach sometimes I would find myself angry with some of these characters and their actions what a great reaction to pull out of your reader ! This is a recommended book for war and history buffs but I think it can be enjoyed by anyone who appreciates readable fiction particularly fiction set in the mid20th century . The ultimate compliment when I finished this I did not hesitate to pick up Wouk 's sequel War and Remembrance . Awesome ! ",4
"I read Winds of War and then its sequel War and Remembrance a few years ago and enjoyed it thoroughly.Herman Wouk weaves in the story of the Henry family through the ordeal of Second World War . The reader gets a very personal look at World War II on all fronts including the Holocaust through the eyes of this tight knit American family.Although it 's a pretty big book the pages fly by ! ",4
"ReallyI 'm old enough to remember when this was first published ! Maybe I should be grateful that I read it at a mature age I probably appreciated it more . The Winds of War and War and Rememberance which I also read and give 5 stars to are the story of a fictional American family a Navy family and their lives during the run up to WWII and during the war itself . I have read a great deal about WWII both fiction and non fiction and this is a great work . The narrative is beautiful the characters are written with great depth and insight male and female civilian and military alike and the story spans the entire globe . There is n't a dull moment.What is amazing about the story is how well the personal trials and tribulations of the Henry clan are woven into the world history that is unfolding . Joy love death betrayal and all of it beautifully told.Wouk is a brilliant writer and a wonderful story teller . ",4
"I 've noticed that there continues to be an interest in these books but that there have also been some interesting comments about them on Amazon . So I 'll add some thoughts of mine.These novels which are really one extended story cover World War II from antecedents to conclusion from the American viewpoint . Wouk uses the device of having one set of charactersin this case Naval Officer Pug Henry and his familycontinually turn up in key situations so as to allow the novel to cover the entire epoch while having a continuous humanlevel plot . War and Peace obviously an inspiration to Wouk is probably the most famous example of this approach . Without this device the writer is forced to chose between taking a microscopic view of the period or ending up with a set of connected stories without a unifying humanlevel plot or interrupting the novel with historical asides . The downside of this device is that it relies on a series of improbable events and coincidences to get a key character into each historical situation important to the story . Readers then need to suspend disbelief on this point to enjoy the novel those that ca n't are going to be disappointed.Comments on Amazon suggest that these books are anything from soap operas to the greatest historical novels ever written . Those who consider them soap operas ca n't suspend disbelief concerning the plot improbabilities . That is a fair reason to not enjoy novels like these but does n't really consign them to the level of soap opera . But neither are they among the greatest historical novels ever written . In fact they are n't even the best novels about World War II that use this plot device that honor goes to Vasily Grossman 's Life and Fate which covers the war from the Soviet viewpoint and is a great novel by a great writer and well worth reading.At the end of the day Herman Wouk may be remembered as one of the finest American novelists of the twentieth century in that his best books were outstanding if conventional novels . But he was not a great writer although he was a very good one . That said these are two books that deserve to endure and gain new generations of readers . They are well written keep moving and encourage the reader to keep turning pages and give a grand overview of the World War II era . If you love history you might prefer learning about the era from nonfiction books by historians and participants . If you are looking for deep characterizations and profound insight into the human experience you should probably read smallerscale novels that look inward rather than cover the broad sweep of a worldwide conflict . But for a reader looking for a well constructed and well written story that also provides an overview of the conflict that consumed the world in the 1930s and 40s and set the stage for the geopolitics of the half century to follow these are wonderful books . ",4
"This is really a good book and I would recommend it to anyone . Especially history and war buffs . You wo n't be disappointed . ",4
"Have read this book several times and never seem to tire of it . The characters are so very well drawn and the timeera has ever been fascinating to me . Wouk captures the sights sounds and smells of those days perfectly . His interaction between 'his ' characters and actual persons of the time is flawless . A terrific historical introduction to the times how people felt things that were done . It 's a masterpiece in my estimation . ",4
"Winds is a magnificent saga of the Henry family and their friends and associates told against a backdrop of the world events leading up to the USA 's entry to WWII . Navy Captain Victor Pug Henry travels the world doing odd jobs for FDR while Germany invades Poland overruns France and fights England and Russia . In the meantime FDR keeps the USA out of the war . After rubbing elbows with Churchill Stalin and Hitler Pug finally finishes up his tasks for FDR and heads to Hawaii to command a battleship . All Pug really ever wanted was a sea command a decent shot at flag rank and good lives for his family . Wait a minuteHawaii ? Is n't that where Pearl Harbor is ? When I read The Caine Mutiny I thought I had read Wouk 's best . Despite the rather narrower scope of Caine I still feel that way . Do n't miss this one though it 's great . ",4
"Winds of war is a masterpiece the definitive novel of world war two . It has everything characters plot and most of all great history . If you like this book watch for NIGHT OF FLAMES by Douglas W. Jacobson coming soon.Night of Flames A Novel of World War II ",4
"I have read this book more than two times . It is still a very good story . I will start the conclusion in a few minutes . ",4
"I consider myself very picky when it comes to books . They have to be pretty exciting and well writting to hold my attention . Maybe I have A.D.D . or something . As the other reviewer said there is a little they know we know that they know business in this book but that did n't stop me from zipping through this book in about 2 days . I give this book 5 stars because the style of writing just allows you to literally sprint through the pages without realizing you 're even reading . it 's seamless and a breeze to read . i never once stopped to question something he wrote and never once felt like i was outside of the story . i 'll be purchasing more of his books pronto . ",4
"I 'm not a fan of the circus and I hate clowns . Being a MacLean fan but with my current mentality I figured he had finally run out of ideas at this point in his life . But the cover of the 1975 Fawcett Crest edition see customer images for the paperback edition was intriguing a man falling off a highwire the bicycle tumbling after him . Is someone killing off circus people ? I had to read.It turns out that the circus plays as a backdrop for a secret CIA mission . Believe it or not but the agenda in this tale is about an incredible circus performer recruited by the CIA to break into a prison that the circus moves next to to steal as the back of the book explains a formula capable of annihilating the earth itself . Sure enough MacLean was like the Crichton of the 70s and managed to weave an entertaining yarn around the idea of antimatter certainly not new in 1975.MacLean refrains from delving too deeply into describing antimatter or how this formula will end up being used . His somewhat amusing approach to it takes place as a discussion between semiignorant CIA agents and Bruno the acquired circus performer all of whom are frightened by the power of antiparticles.As the title may suggest the book is a slight deviant from other MacLean adventure tales but I rank it up there among his best works . The book is full of extremely original death scenes that despite being accustomed to MacLean 's formulas took me completely by surprise . There are more twists in the last chapter than there are in some of his better books and MacLean pulls it off realistically and without creating a convoluted mess.Keep an eye out for Carter . While no first name is ever given he is the doppelganger cameo of Chief Officer John Carter of MacLean 's The Golden Rendezvous . MacLean has done this with other characters throughout his novels . ",4
"1975 's Circus is a suspenseful Cold War thriller by master story teller Alistair MacLean featuring a popular circus on tour in an unnamed Eastern European country . As in many of Maclean 's novels practically none of the characters are exactly who they seem to be while the espionage mission to steal the secret plans for an exotic antimatter weapon is only one item on a seemingly crowded agenda.The hero of the story is one Bruno Wilderman Eastern European expatriate and master circus aerialist . He is asked by the CIA to break into the Lubyian Prison in the city of Crau in order to steal the abovementioned plans . The only access to the prison may be a near suicidal aerial traverse of a three hundred yard long electrical cable nine stories in the air . To complicate the plot the sudden deaths of two CIA agents before the circus even leaves the United States indicate the enemy is onto the plot . The trails of mysterious deaths will follow the circus across the Atlantic and into Eastern Europe . Wilderman nominally under the direction of the CIA 's Dr. Harper and his beautiful young assistant Maria soon learns that he will have to make his own plans if he hopes to survive the mission.The premise for the story is solid but the plot too often devolves into they know that we know that they know that we know shannigans . The mission is immediately compromised and the reader is asked to believe that Wilderman can put together his own effort to break into the Lubyian one worthy of a Mission Impossible episode under the noses of both the CIA and the Secret Police in Crau . MacLean fans will sense that he was to some degree going through the motions on another spy thriller but to his credit MacLean keeps the surprises coming to the very last page.Circus is recommended to fans of Alistair Maclean as an entertaining read . ",2
"Another great MacLean classic . In this book the hero is an American athlete an immigrant from eastern Europe . He is recruited by the CIA and is to undertake and unimaginable mission . He of course succeeds but not without the extreme difficulties that macLean 's heroes always face . The story twists are awesome and the ending is both expected and surprising . A great read . ",4
"The United States secret service is attempting to steal the plans of a new weapons of mass destruction developed by the USSR . To do that the services of an international trapeze artist are required . Very early in the plot it becomes clear that the Americans have an infiltrator in their midst whose identity remains unknown in the best tradition of MacLean until a very late stage of the book.Why I thought it is good enough ? Old readers of MacLean will identify most of the artist 's motives and techniques but they are used with literary skill and the reading is fluent the reader feels thrilled and intrigued most of the time.Why I thought it is not 4 or 5 stars ? Alistair Maclean 's best books are much more compact the level of tension is much higher the images more detailed and reliable and the whole experience is unlike anything other authors are capable of copying . This book could have been written by someone else . It is not a MacLean Gem.But overall one still has a good time reading it . ",2
"..so says one of the protagonists near the end of the book . I know exactly how he feels . 'Circus ' is a good example of Maclean 's latecareer decline . His early tales were tightlyplotted and exciting with plenty of action and interesting if not exactly original characters . In contrast apart from a mildly interesting plot this book is loose and lazily written almost as if Maclean could n't really be bothered.The characters are little more than twodimensional cutouts Bruno is the typical introverted loner hero with a tragic past who nevertheless seems an expert at nearly everything . Maria Hopkins is an utterly clueless 'heroine ' whom we can not for a second believe is a CIA operative . And these are two of the most welldrawn characters ! What about Manuelo Roebuck and Kan Dahn ? We know what motivates Bruno to act as he does but what 's their motivation ? Or Harper 's ? Or for that matter Van Diemen 's ? We 're never given any insight into what drives these characters there 's lots of shrugging of shoulders and we may never know why he did what he did . It reads like a copout.The writing dialogue and descriptive passages are leaden and often lazy . For example there is the thriller cliche of the bad guys allowing the heroes to progress so far because they plan to trap them at the very end . This does nothing except rob the book of any action or suspense and of course our heroes easily predict the trap and dispose of the villians without breaking a sweat . The romance between Bruno and Maria is corny even by thriller standards . And while a couple of characters are unexpectedly dispatched we never feel any real threat directed at Bruno . He 's portrayed as so skilled at everything that we never believe there 's a situation he ca n't get out of.The book 's only real good point is that the antimatter plot is interesting and the way in which the CIA plan to use Bruno is quite novel . It 's clear Maclean had a few good ideas here . What a shame he could n't make something better out of them . ",1
"I had read several of Alistair Maclean 's novels and had an 8 year break when I got a hold of this . This novel is a prime exhibit of why I enjoy him so much . A mystery revealing tidbits here and there leaving you guessing who the good guys are and who are the bad guys.If you want to be on the edge of your seat for a while this book will do it . ",4
"They just do n't write mysteries like Alistair MacLean did anymore . This is one of my all time favorite books . I first read my dad 's copy as a teen and was excited to find this edition the same as the original I read on Amazon.The story is gripping and engaging and the twist at the end a signature MacLean move which he save literally to the last page no cheating ! will have you going back and rereading it just to experience the story with that knowledge ! The book was in excellent condition when it arrived thank you seller . ",4
"Three brothers headline the circus of Tesco Wrinfield as aerialists who perform in masks and hoods.The oldest bother has powers of total recall and attacks the attention of the CIA who need someone to enter an Iron Curtain prison to retrieve information about antimatter.CIRCUS by Alistair MacLean in a spell binder that keeps you glued to your seat til the end of the show.Nash Black author of QUALIFYING LAPS . ",4
"There are lots of surprising twists in this story including a final surprise in the last sentence . MacLean did a very good job when he wrote this book . ",4
"A criminal mastermind has commandeered a bus containing the President of the United States and two Arab envoys and has parked it in the middle of the Golden Gate Bridge . If his ransom demands are n't met he threatens to kill his hostages and destroy the bridge . Little does he know one of the reporters covering the event is not who he seemsReading this 1976 novel by Alistair MacLean leaves me wondering if the late thriller author is putting us his readers on intentionally . It 's a singularly strange tale where the bad guys are as sympathetic as the good guys and a strange casualness pervades the scene of the crime as caterers and reporters mingle freely with hostagetakers who smile for photographs . Most books of this type come with a high body count but here people are more likely to drop dead from food poisoning than a bullet wound.I 've never been responsible for anybody 's death in my life says the chief villain a fellow named Branson who like the famous later reallife billionaire of the same name brings a lot of impressive dash to his work . It 's the kind of boast you do n't expect and appropriate to a novel more than a little offbeam from beginning to end.The usual MacLean minuses are in evidence here Leaden characterization convenient plot twists an unconvincing romantic subplot . But at least he was trying something different and maybe anticipating the hypermedia age where hijackings are television events and schemers double as spin doctors.If only MacLean 's humor was in better evidence . Then again maybe it is . It 's possible MacLean is parodying himself here . Critics of the time noted his books had everyone speaking in British idioms even the Americans so here 's an American doctor who apologizes for his British expressions by saying he was educated in England . The slipcover of my first edition has some text on the back about an American battleship being used as a 45000ton battering ram with some accompanying breathless text MacLean obviously furnished himself . It only appears on the slipcover however there 's no such scene or ship in the pages of the book . You get the feeling MacLean was smirking about that subterfuge all the way to the bank.Despite not being sure where its author is coming from Golden Gate satisfies in its purehearted Boys ' Own way . Other books of this kind derive suspense from who gets killed . Here you worry more that anyone will get killed which is a good deal healthier for society and harder for a thriller writer to pull off . MacLean does seem to be having fun and you will too as long as you do n't take this any more seriously than he did . ",2
"I agree with most of the foregoing reviews for this book . I found it in a beach house we rented and got through it quickly . It 's entertaining and works in spite of the unlikely happenings . I almost jettisoned it unfinished however because of one bizarre quirk . Someone else in this forum remarked that one of the characters speaks in British idiomwith a convenient excuse about going to school in Englandbut it 's worse than that . ALL of the characters talk as if MacLean had never set foot in the USA ! Did he ? I mean we are talking about the Golden Gate Bridge at the entrance to San Francisco Bay right ? But the characters all talk as if they came straight out of borstal Wormwood Scrubs and Scotland Yard ! At one point near the end there 's a real howler one of the local lawmen on the bridge mutters something about calling in the armed police.The Armed Police ? That was the last straw . Obviously MacLean was unaware that there are no Armed Police in America and really could n't be bothered to get it right . Sloppy work MacLean . The weird dialogue made suspension of disbelief difficult . If he could n't manage American idiom why set it in the US ? ",2
"I 've always maintained that all Presidential candidates should undergo an IQ test . Would that this were the first sentence of The Golden Gate ! Alas it appears on page 135 spoken like a true criminal mastermind with the fortitude of a German tank . This is Peter Branson the man behind an admittedly complex presidential kidnapping who spits smoothly ! this remark to the President 's face he who asked a question meant to confirm his worst fear his life and those of several important Arabian representatives a shiek and an oil king hangs by a thread.Half a billion dollars is required payment for their lives . MacLean chose a sum that may have seemed exorbitant in 1976 but still holds as incredibly high for a tale told nearly 30 years later.MacLean is in neartop form as he takes the reader through the antagonists ' point of view their setup and how they nab the president in the very middle of the Golden Gate Bridge . Only then does Agent Paul Revson arrive and in an unexpected way . His affiliation with MacLean 's greatest heroes Michael Reynolds Peter Mason John Carter could be that of a direct bloodline his flaws make him human but his extravagant conception of Branson 's downfall makes him a military genius . The true Army of One.The first paragraph is a little deviantstraying from MacLean 's signature first sentence idiomswritten in a peculiar checklist method . I mention this only because I am aware of MacLean 's slight decline in effective storytelling which many have claimed began with The Way to Dusty Death a title I have yet to read but I will dispute this notion Breakheart Pass Circus and The Golden Gate are as fabulous if less character driven than his earlier books . The Golden Gate is no exception surpassing Circus in scope and suspense ! Keep an eye out for General Carter . The last name is carried over from the hero of The Golden Rendezvous . My dictionary dash consisted of rubicund 116 . I read the 1976 Fawcett Crest edition . ",3
"With a surgically military precision Peter Branson and his men plan the kidnapping of the President of the US and his two guests from the Middle East a prince and a king . The kidnapping is to take place in the middle of the Golden Gate bridge in San Francisco and Branson is expecting a large ransom if everything goes according to his plan.A rather unrealistic adventure story . ",1
"I think James Bond should take a leaf from Alistair Maclean 's books . His hero in this yarn defies description someone who is smart a little cynical unwilling to give in to the momentary distractions of injury or beautiful spoiled women who are actually great heroines in disguise ! in order to force the hand of the blackguard holding the world in thrall . My most memorable scene in this book is when the protagonist is suffering from a bulletridden leg yet hanging from the side of a porthole in high wind trying valiantly to get past the villains that have hijacked this ship which has precious lives and gold cargo . It 's a real treat and an engrossing read especially because it is so fantastic ! I would rather take a hero of Maclean 's stamp than Ian Fleming 's any day of the week ! ",4
"MacLean was a master of the suspense thriller for many years with The Guns of Navarone Where Eagles Dare The Satan Bug and many other fine works . I read most of his works a long time ago but found that for some reason I 'd missed this one written fairly late in his career.Unhappily this is not the best of his works . The scenario is semiplausible with a rich and very intelligent villain Branson out to make even more money and lots of fame by holding the President and some Arab oil leaders hostage in the middle of the Golden Gate Bridge and the bridge itself is part of the hostage party as Branson threatens to blow it up . It 's Branson 's apparent need for fame that allows the plot to develop as Revson an FBI agent posing as a reporter is allowed to remain with the party on the bridge . The battle of wits and happenstance is joined with Branson sure that he has all contingencies covered while Revson keeps coming up with innovative ways to undermine Branson 's position.As a plot not bad . But there are problemsFirst is the level of characterization which is pretty minimal . I wanted to see a lot more about what makes Branson tick and how Revson not only got to be so competent but what his emotional wellsprings were but I did n't get it . Other characters are almost stick figures there to move the plot and little else.Second is the level of research that MacLean did for this book . Part of the scheme required Branson to be able to monitor aircraft traffic around the bridge . For this purpose MacLean had Branson 's force overtake the Mt . Tamalpias radar stations . Now it so happens that at the time this book was written I was actually stationed there except there was only one radar site that plural is not a typo as it 's repeated in a couple of places and the actual name of the site was Mill Valley Air Force Station . Worse the type of radars in use at that site were longrange radars and not very good for monitoring small lowflying aircraft only a few miles away . Nor could someone just ` walk in ' and take over the site it was guarded . Now this is minor item in terms of the overall plot but the errors here left me wondering about the quality level of the rest of the research in this book.Third is the plausibility of someone having enough connections to be able to gather all the required information about routes security procedures times agency staffing vehicles and everything else needed to be able to intercept and overpower a Presidential convoy . MacLean does a pretty good job of trying to support this scenario but I was still left with that niggling feeling of doubt about it . Right along with this first implausibility is the thunderstorm that occurs that allow certain actions by the good guys to be plausibly explained away to Branson . Hello thunderstorms in the Bay Area ? Yes they do happen but they are pretty darn rare and almost never at the level of activity that this one supposedly had . Plus it smacked of way too much coincidence happening just when the good guys needed it.As a suspense novel with modern terrorist overtones this is not bad . It does keep you reading to find out what happens next . But it could have been a lot better with deeper characters and better research.Reviewed by Patrick Shepherd hyperpat ",2
"In the first 100 pages I learned a lot about Presidents and Arab Kings . Who knew they were into the RVing lifestyle ? Next thing you know they 'll be spotted at a KOA.A big disappointment sorry to say . ",1
"Almost every major thriller plot has been written in some form by Alistair MacLean from the commando team sent on an impossible mission The Guns of Navarone Where Eagles Dare Force Ten from Navarone hijacking on the open seas The Golden Rendezvous the killer virus in the hands of an insane terrorist The Satan Bug terrorists planning to cause a superquake in California Goodbye California and various undercover secret agent missions.In The Golden Gate a crack team of criminals led by mastermind Peter Branson executes a daring plan to kidnap the President of the United States on San Francisco 's Golden Gate bridge . Branson and his men block off both ends of the bridge wire it with explosives and demand millions of dollars . . . plus a pardon . Any rescue attempts will result in the detonation of the explosives killing the President and destroying the Golden Gate Bridge.But Branson is an egomaniac and he ca n't resist attention from the media . So he not only lets but actually invites the press to stay on the bridge and cover the story . Too bad for Branson that one of the journalists is actually FBI Special Agent Paul Revson.The game is underway Can Revson disable the explosives and stop the plot ? Will Branson discover that Revson is really an agent ? There 's no characterization to speak of and as a writer MacLean is passable but nothing special . Still read solely for its plot The Golden Gate is fun and diverting . ",3
"This is the fourth book sequentially and the second I 've read of the extremely popular AubreyMaturin series of historical novels.After a brief and interesting look at Jack 's less than blissful connubial life with the wife he married at the end of HMS Surprise O'Brian whisks us off to the Indian Ocean where French frigates based in Mauritius have been making havoc with the ships of the East India Company so central to England 's economy not to mention the private wealth of many of it 's most powerful people . One merit of the books is how they show us that even if another conflict is known as the First World War the Napoleonic Wars were in fact fought on fields and seas throughout the world . Aubrey is lifted to the rank of Commodore and given the assignment of defeating the enemy vessels and if possible capturing Reunion and Mauritius.The ups and downs of the campaign which O'Brian states are based closely on history make for a good story . But the AubreyMaturin characters are not as developed as in HMS Surprise and the potentially interesting characters who are introduced are n't given enough space to live up to their promise with the exception perhaps of the foppish but courageous Lord Clonfert a captain in Aubrey 's squadron . His rival captain Corbett a sadistic disciplinarian is n't on stage enough to emerge as an individual nor is another rival captain Pym.O'Brian obviously has a vast knowledge of the ship designs tactics methods slang even cuisine of the Royal Navy he describes . But he shows little mercy for the reader who is unlikely to share his expertise . Thus one of the points of a story like this to show Jack Aubrey using tactical resourcefulness to salvage a difficult situation falls flat . Aubrey 's maneuvers are described fully enough but O'Brian fails to explain why a given decision was made . In the absence of authorial assistance the numerous description of how various sails are manipulated tells us little indeed.The story ends rather suddenly just when it seems to be really taking off it 's all over in a few pages . ",2
"Weird mixture of hilarious historically based way too real . Picked one up on tape to stay awake during a couple of hours ' trip have both read and listened to them ever since.Fortunately there really are twentysome in the series . And the tone of them varies one with world 's silliest ending one that just made me sad . This one is pretty big on military history the names have been changed to suit the series ! . ",4
"I just finished this and they are hitting me up to review it . I 'm no Evelyn Wood damnit.Anyway I do enjoy O'Brian 's novels but it just occurred to me that I was laboring through this one a bit . A bit long winded it seemed.I do n't know if it 's that I 've taken a break and been reading pretty widely of other authors in this genre lately and it 's affected my perceptions or if it 's just not his best work.Do n't get me wrong it 's still a good read . O'Brian is arguably the best or most artistic in this genre.I prefer that he writes in much the same manner you would see from a book written in the period it 's much more vivid and believable.But it does tend to dwell on what seem like small details at the expense of the overall narrative.He could have either written 500 more pages or shortened it by 200 . But since he did neither it 's lacking.What seems happen here is He bogs down the story with incessant observations of one of the protagoniststhen when you come to a sequence of action he has to rush through it to get to the other side and more of the same.It just did n't feel veryfluid I guess . Like he wanted to get all this stuff in but wanted to confine the book length too . And then picked the wrong stuff to skim over.Face it we buy these for tales of action and adventure not in depth interpersonal observations.Filling out your characters is all well and good but it can get in the way too.Maybe I was just suffering a bout of AASD American Attention Span Disorderwhile chewing through this . I 'll move on to the next book and see.Still you have to read it . You 'll mess up the sequence and be totally lost if you skip this one.They gotcha by the short ones once you open Master and Commander . ",2
"The Patrick O'Brian naval series of books are an acquired taste . If you love the first book chances are that over the next few years you will find a way to work through the entire series . I do not recommend reading the book on its own . The true joy is seeing the transformation and progression of the two main characters.The books are not for everyone the writing style differs from what is found in 21st century adventure novels . The language is deep and the sentences are carefully crafted . While the books appear on the outside to be simple naval adventure tales they are really deep studies in character development of a British naval officer and his best friendship surgeonintelligence operative.The Mauritius Command is one of the best books in the series . Almost the entire book takes place at sea . A few of the earlier book got bogged down whenever the lead character naval officer Jack Aubrey steps onto land but at soon as he takes to sea the books take on a whole new life.While the characters speak of honor and duty the author makes no attempts to hide the rough cruel and violent life aboard British naval ships during the early 19th century . While not a quick read if you are willing to invest the time and energy the Mauritius Command and all of the books in the series are well worth you time . ",4
"The whole Patrick O'Brian are works of art and will grab you for Captain Aubrey 's entire career . Interesting to note how many obstacles he overcomes as he climbs the ladder of command in the Royal Navy . Its a good primer for young folks starting a career it is not always a rocket path to the top . You will encounter traditions rules and technology that impede your goals and one has to be a risk taker . Again and again Aubrey takes risks rallies his seamen and prevails . One wonders if a personality like Aubrey would be tolerated in our risk aversion US Navy today . ",4
"The series is one of the best literary experiences of the English language.Stupid requirements for minimum number of wordsstupid Stupid if I do n't have more to say Why require it ? ",4
"I somehow misplaced this book of the series..and so had to buy again . This is my third time thru all 20 Ok 21 of O'brian 's masterpieces . Every 5 years or so I find I can get lost in this totally absorbing world again . ",4
"O'Brian 's AubreyMaturin series seems to get better with every book . I found the first Master and Commander hard slugging and gave the series a second try based on recommendations and the publicity following the author 's passing . It has been well worth the second try.Unfortunately The Mauritius Command reveals the second strategic error that the author made in writing the series . The first error was starting it in 1800 leading to some historical crowding later on . Similarly the author has let several years slide since HMS Surprise contributing further to the crowding . I have read that the author regretted his timing of the series although in fairness too him it was n't obvious that AubreyMaturin would catch on and that he would ultimately complete 20 novels covering an 18year period . The novel itself has few flaws and is well paced.Jack Aubrey has spent the intervening years in wedded bliss although his circumstances and life away from the sea have not been kind to him . Not only is Jack Aubrey married but he also has twins . The opening pages make me wonder what married life would have been like for Mr. Darcy and Elizabeth had Jane Austen written a sequel to Pride and Prejudice . The allusions are there and the writing is good enough for O'Brian to pull it off.The Mauritius Command really picks up when the duo return to the sea bound for Capetown and a campaign against the French held islands of La Reunion and Mauritius . Aubrey is to fly a Commodore 's pennant and administer a hiding to the French . However he has to deal with an untrustworthy admiral captains with varying abilities and fighting spirit and personality conflicts . The tension builds steadily and there is more action than in earlier novels . The conclusion is anticlimactic although it is very neatly tied together.The Mauritius Command was published at roughly the same time as Kent 's Passage to Mutiny . Both are examples of the authors at their peaks . O'Brian is clearly the better writer of the two but he does n't deliver the action the way Kent does . Still if events did n't happen as O'Brian relates he did a superb job of catching the flavour of the times . He was a great author and The Mauritius Command demonstrates this thoroughly . ",4
"The AubreyMaturin series is outstanding ! When you finish one book you ca n't wait to start on the next . The historic detail is incredible and the characters are entirely believable . ",4
"This book moves quickly and has a lot of action . The characters are well drawn and believable . A great read ! ",4
"At the beginning of this book we find our heroes Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin living the domestic life in England as they are without a ship . Fortunately this does not last long . This book is a thrilling retelling of the taking of the Islands of Mauritius and Reunion in 1810 by the British from the French . The story itself is largely true although the characters are fictional replacements for reallife counterparts.What I think sets O'Brian aside from most writers is his ability to make the less active scenes just as descriptive and interesting as the fiercest battle sequences . You feel just as much a part of the book during sequences that describe the irritation of being stuck for days without wind as you do during the storming of an encampment on Reunion Island . While I think all of O'Brian 's books do a great job at giving the reader a sense of what life was like in the British Navy during the Napoleonic Wars the vivid descriptions in this book caught me more than in the previous books all of which I enjoyed.Aditionally while I agree with others that have said that the AubreyMaturin books are not action books I must say that the battle descriptions in this installment go above and beyond those in previous books . I get the sense that this is about the point in the series where O'Brian really hit his stride and I ca n't wait to make my way through the rest of the series.As I 've said in past reviews these books really should be read in order . I can not say that a reader could not pick up The Mauritius Command and enjoy it wihout having read prior books but I do not think he or she would really fully enjoy the book without the benefit of its predecessors . ",4
"For this installment of the AubreyMaturin series author Patrick O'Brian went to a littleknown historical skirmish that took place between Great Britain and France as usual ! over the ownership of a couple islands in the Indian Ocean including Mauritius . As O'Brian points out in the introduction to the book there was little need to embellish i.e . fictionalize the events since this was such a littleknown event and because there was plenty of drama to be had in what really happened basically the reallife commodore is changed to Jack Aubrey.The book contains all the details we come to expect from an AubreyMaturin novel as appreciaton of the tactical and strategic situations the politics of the Royal Navy the way seniority and authority are handled descriptions of ships etc . But like with any wellcrafted prose such expository details never feel like exposition but serve to immerse the reader in the world of the Napoleonicera Royal Navy . And its never at the expense of the action or the advance of plot points . As for the novel itself it 's just as interesting and engrossing as the previous three novels in the series thus far . The resolution may not be as satisfying in the traditional sense but historically is a happy ending indeed carrying the dispatches after a victory may not sound like a big deal but the captains of such ships were often feted as much or more than the actual captain that won the battle in this case they are the same person at least . At any rate the adherence to the overall historical timeline gives the novel a greater authenticity even if it is n't quite the most satisfying way to script an adventure novel.There 's really little else to say if you 've read any of the novels in this series you 'll know what to expect . That 's not to say that they are getting boring or repetative ! They are each fresh and exciting in their own right and I 'll continue through the series looking forward to each new adventure . If you have n't read one of these novels yet . what are you waiting for ? ",3
"O'Brian is a superb writer . Start at book 1 and work your way through . Do n't let the archaic language get you down the language you do n't understand just adds some texture . ",3
"This series is really more like one long novel than a serialization . Again we find Lucky Jack Aubrey land bound and hoping for a command . Like in all the others he soon receives his hearts desire and the rest as they say is history . The semi accurate revisionist history is pleasing . The use of the archaic Royal naval jargon is like learning another language . If this installment we see more of Dr. Maturins true vocation as a spy . I highly recommend this installment to anyone who has read any of the past books . ",3
"Best in the series in regards to O'Brian subtlety . The character flaws for both major and minor players are brought to life with his dry wit Andrew humor . ",3
"The 4th novel in O'Brian 's series of Cpt . Aubrey and Dr. Mautrin has Aubrey made acting Commodore in command of a small flotilla seeking to disrupt the French presence off the coast of south Africa and make an amphibious landings on two small islands off Madagascar . Both charges challenge Aubrey 's considerable nautical skill.As Aubrey 's responsibility grows he soon finds so do the complications of command as he quickly learns a complaining crew is much easier to handle than managing the egos and navigating the political waters of senior command . The interaction between Aubrey and his peers the infighting manipulation and machinations between officers those directly under his command as well as those above him make for particularly riveting reading every bit as interesting as the battles at sea.I am continually impressed with O'Brian 's ability to keep the stories fresh as readers become better acquainted with Aubrey and Maturin the plots become more complex and larger and one 's understanding of the characters becomes deeper . In _The Mauritius Command_ the ante is upped further by basing the story on true events in the Napoleonic wars . The series is every bit as good as fans would have you believe . Highly recommended . ",4
"Once againPatrick O'Brian bats a home run . The author manages to make daytoday in fact a minute to minute life aboard a Napoleonera manofwar seem like it is happening contemporaneously . And a very exciting life it is too . Aubrey 's skill as a mariner is amply displayed as are the machinations of .Maturin . I used to think the C.S.Forester 's Hornblower was the ultimate in sea stories of that era but his skill has been supplanted in my view by O'Brien . If you like sea stories you will love this one . ",4
"The opening of The Mauritius Command brings us some changes especially for Captain Jack Aubrey who finds himself in the improbable role for him of husband and father of twins . Unsuccessful and hapless in his domestic life he immediately jumps at the chance to leave England and take over a new command . Off the coast of Africa Jack is promoted to commodore putting him in command not just of his own ship but of a small fleet . In the course of the book Jack stretches his abilities to the fullest as the British vie with the French for possession of several small islands crucial to controlling the India trade.Of course Dr. Stephen Maturin is on hand too . His facets as doctor naturalist and spy all come into play in the course of the novel . The previous novel H.M.S . Surprise involved incredible physical suffering loss and rejection for Stephen so it was nice to see him get a break in this installment . However Stephen is still haunted by what has happened to him . A dark current runs through him that no doubt will resurface in future books.The overriding issue explored in this novel is leadership and what it means to be a good leader . Jack has to deal with two very different captains serving under him one of whom is a silly and vain man who is kind and familiar with his men and thus beloved by them . The other is a brave commander who exercises brutal tyranny with those under his rule . The weaknesses of both men lead to very different disasters.In spite of the battles and some serious turns of event The Mauritius Command involves more action and comedy and less angst than H.M.S . Surprise making it a lighter read . ",4
"This the fourth in the series has left m anxious to begin the next novel and to see what is in store for Jack and Stephen . ",4
"Captain Aubrey raises his Commodore 's broad pennant for the first time . He finds commanding a single ship under his sole control less frustrating than dealing with the personalities of subordinant captains and commanders . The exotic locale and historical accuracy of this little known British adventure are well told in a fictionalized account inserting Aubrey and Maturin . A personal favorite . ",4
"I had given up on this series after the last book HMS Surprise because I was getting lost in the seafaring terminology and there was a bit much of the lovelorn simpering in the tale . The Mauritius Command restores my faith in this series . It 's a great tale of derringdo in the Indian Ocean its based on some actual events and actual ships and overall the tone is very convincing . The women folk are left back on land and only intrude to an acceptable level of letter writing etc . My paperback edition contains a valuable afterword by Brian Lavery who describes the actual ships on which the tale is based and gives a worthwile overview of the seafaring terminology . I still wo n't be able to distinguish a fore topsail yard from a quarterdeck but at least Lavery is reassuring that they are meaningful terms.Jack Aubery continues on his lucky career in the British Navy almost but not quite achieving lasting fame and fortune this being more necessary now that he has a wife three children and a motherinlaw to support . For me this book develops Stephen Maturin more he is still secretive reflective reassuringly Irish and intellectual however he develops a melancholia which is only temporarily suppressed by his furtive diplomatic activities . O'Brien moves Maturin one step closer to Sherlock Holmes by hinting at his opiate use during the story ",3
"I 'd happily give every AubreyMaturin novel five stars but I 've got to differentiate somehow . This one is interesting because the first three novels while having relatively independent story arcs share a strong consistency of style characterization and timing . The Mauritius Command seems a bit of an experiment for O'Brian.No longer do we have the so very youthful deeply flawed but energetically driven Aubrey and Maturin . There seems to me some inconsistency in timeline age etc . in the cursorytothepointofirrelevance intro in which we see the Aubrey the semiretired and ineffective family man whose wife is ready to get him out of the house.The rest of the story is in fairly classic style but a little too focused on reenacting the historical details of an extensive and welldocumented naval campaign to the detriment of the highly charged personal stories like the relationship triangle that led to the dramatic duel in HMS Surprise.So the book is a bit of an oddball when compared to the strong flow of narrative and style in the novels before and after as if O'Brian just did n't quite know where he was going but picked it up again in Vol . 5 . Do n't get me wrong though it is good and not to be missed . ",3
"I just got started with the series a few weeks ago and I just ca n't stop.Book 4 plays a nice contrast to the previous ones with more of a likeness to the first book in that it is full of naval action and battles . It 's hard to say which books so far are better since they all feel as necessary pieces of one greater story . Suffice to say this book will not disappoint any reader of the prequels . ",4
"I 'm reading these books in series and I 've just recently finished The Mauritius Command . I 've given all the books in this series 5 stars . The title of my review suggests that this book is a departure from the first three . This is true but I do not want to overemphasize that point . We get here all the things we expect from an O'Brian Aubrey novel . What is different is simply the amount of time spent on the various actions . In this book I missed more of the intimate moments between Maturin and Aubrey playing their instruments fretting over money and so forth . However this does well perhaps to put us in the mind of Aubrey for this adventure.Readers of the other novels will not be disappointed here . And of course the quality of O'Brian 's writing can not be overstated . ",4
"Unlike Forrester O'Brian has really done his homework . His books are really informative.Forrerster follows the straight Tory ticket and O'Brian does not.Of course the Hornblower series started in the thirties when England still had an empire . The AubreyMathurin series on the other hand started in 1969 when England had lost its empire and democracy had become respectable . ",4
"I have read the prior three novels in O'Brian 's masterful AubreyMaturin series and thought the first three were uniformly excellent . After a layoff I returned to the series and while I enjoyed The Mauritius Command I thought there was somewhat of a slip from the first few books of this 20 novel series.The novel opens promisingly with Aubrey suffering in a lessthanideal domestic situation . His motherinlaw lives with Jack his wife Sophie and their cranky daughters and his efforts to manage a farm are comical in his ineptitude . When Maturin visits and Aubrey tries to show him around and put a brave face on his domestic struggles the comedy inherent in O'Brian 's writing comes shining through . While Jack and the reader itch to get to sea it is there that O'Brian seems to lose control of the story.Aubrey gets an order to go to the Cape of Good Hope where he is sent on a mission to dislodge the French from the Mauritius Islands and help set up a British Colonial Governor by the name of Farquar . As is usually the case despite great achievements in the past Jack is shackled and insufficiently rewarded by his superiors in the admiralty and his supposed connections through his father in the Parliament are of little help.O'Brian seems to assume a good bit of nautical knowledge by the reader and this landlubber sometimes got a little lost in the naval warfare scenes . The most engaging aspects of the novel seemed to me the differences in character and the seething oneupsmanship among the various ship captains under Jack 's overall command including Captains Pym Clonfert and Corbett . The problem was just when the author whets your appetite for some great internal conflict or drama between the brutal Corbett and the popular Clonfert Corbett is sent from the area.Moreover the final battle scenes are almost thrown together in summary form as if the culmination of the mission did not really concern O'Brian as much as the hassles of getting there and so there was a bit of a letdown at the end . I look forward to the next novel Desolation Island I think but have to be lukewarm in my praise of this one . I give it a fairly generous 4 stars 3 and 12 if I could . ",3
"another great O'Brian work.up to his always high standard ",4
"these classics seldom disappoint and while the language and naval jargon sometimes to slow things down the characters are incredibly well developed and if you spend some time with them you feel like you know them well . great work by a great author ",4
"The Mauritius Command the fourth in the AubreyMaturin series of novels written by Patrick O'Brian shows Captain Lucky Jack Aubrey several years after the events chronicled in H.M.S . Surprise in wedded bliss but alas without much of a fortune to support his growing family . Indeed he is no longer on active command but a Royal Navy captain on half pay . Stephen Maturin arrives bearing salvation in the form of a special mission to the Indian Ocean along with Aubrey 's temporary promotion to Commodore in command of a small squadron . What follows is one of the most exciting installments in the entire AubreyMaturin saga and the start of an extended story arc which will take their fight against Napoleonic France and its allies throughout much of the Indian Ocean and the adjoining portions of Southeast Asia . Once more Patrick O'Brian delivers the goods with his excellent lyrical prose that seems more at home with the likes of Jane Austen than with contemporary authors of fiction . ",4
"Have to admit that I am reading the series for the second time after several years of reading other similar books . Stockwin is super but O'Brian has a richness of language and complexity of plot that is unsurpassed . Wonderfully entertaining . ",4
"The excellence continues unabated . This series must be seen as the quintessential British Naval action and life in the era of British colonialism and the expanding Empire . Aubrey and Stephan continue their steadfast friendship and duties as Master mariner and doctorspy . ",3
"The Mauritius Command opens a few years after the end of HMS Surprise . Jack has discovered married life to be very different than he imagined & amp longs to be back at sea . The arrival of Stephen Maturin & amp mushrooms stirs the household to a frenzy.This humorous beginning shows Patrick O'Brian 's masterful abilities . In a few deft strokes the past years are filled in with no heavy exposition or flashbacks & amp the events to come are put into motion . Aubrey faces many new challenges in the course of The Mauritius Command having to learn to sooth battling egos command while refraining from fighting & amp create a fighting machine from almost nothing . His faithful follower Tom Pullings plays an expanded role in this tale as the captain of a transport & amp deus ex machina while Stephen Maturin 's political abilities overshadow his medical duties.This is one of the most exciting AubreyMaturin novels a real Boys Own Life type tale full of gunplay cat & amp mouse feints & amp hearty comradeship . The most exciting aspect of it is that it all really happened of course with different protagonists ! . Learn about a forgotten campaign of the Napoleonic wars & amp enjoy yourself in the process ! Read The Mauritius Command ! ",4
"Each of the titles in this series gains in the rereading this is my third time and none more than this . In addition to the usual stirring naval action here there is particularly rich interaction between Jack Aubrey and Lord Clonfert as well as between Aubrey and Admiral Bertie . You could take this book and easily turn it into a leadership management seminar . ",4
"Patrick O'Brian is one of the greatest writers ever ! The entire Jack Aubrey & Stephen Maturin series all 20 books are a delight from start to finish and a literary masterpiece . We read them over and over again . ",4
"Here is another brilliant book in the series . Definitely worth reading he is a true storyteller . Would recommend to everyone . ",4
"Jack commands the Boadicea assigned to eliminate the French fleet capturing rich Indiamen around Mauritius.For the first time O'Brian manages a proper novel format this book starts with a goal meets obstacles to achieving that goal and ends with a resolution of that goal . More importantly he continues his tradition of compelling characters in involving situations . I was n't thrilled with the way poor Jack kept getting slammed with defeat after defeat though . In addition although thoroughly enjoyable and even rereadable this book lacked the oomph that would have let me give it a 5 rating . Like all the books in this series the conversion to etext was done via OCR and not as carefully as I would have preferred . but the result is readable . ",3
"Jack Aubrey 's dreams of success in the British Navy get a boost when he is assigned as the Commodore of a fleet near Mauritius . But along with the glory of the management post comes the hellish torture of responsibility for the actions of several captains less capable than Jack.Aubrey and Maturin finally fully join their mental forces in the attempt to understand just what makes each captain in the fleet tick . Each at their own level Maturin 's rather deeper they form a concept of the other personalities they must work with . And Aubrey ultimately finds that even the best planning can be brought to nought by one committee or anotherThis book also gives us a gently amusing glimpse of Aubrey 's life on land as a married man . As with all the AubreyMaturin books this is by turns amusing and thoughtful as well as realistic and picturesque . ",4
"This is my third time to read the series . Each time I find more depth more humor and more enjoyment than the times before . Best stuff going . ",4
"This fourth novel in the AubreyMaturin series shows more narrative unity than the first three which is partly a function of Jack Aubrey 's nowexalted rank . As a newly promoted commander in a small sloop and even as a post captain he was at the beck of more senior officers . Now as commodore in command of a squadron of several shipsoftheline and lesser warships plus a small herd of transports and Indiamen crowded with troops he has reached a position of high command with orders to capture the French outpost islands of Mauritius and La Reunion in the Indian Ocean . As Dr. Maturin privately notes in his diary Jack was probably happier as a junior officer with only his own ship and men in his direct responsibility now he must manage other ships 's captains at one remove deal diplomatically with the Army and oversee the installation of a new British governor . O'Brian hews closely to historical fact in narrating this littleknown but complex campaign and he also delves more deeply into the psychology of the supporting characters especially Lord Clonfort a not unintelligent but very unhappy young commander apparently afflicted with bipolar disorder who constantly seeks the approval of his own subordinates as well as his seniors . As true historical fiction this volume is for me the most enjoyable in the series yet . ",4
"Count me as one of those completely taken by Patrick O'Brian 's marvelous tales about Lucky Jack Aubrey and his friend Dr. Stephen Maturin . Each installment seems to outdo its predecessor thus giving rise to the suggestion made by others here that in this book O'Brian really hits his stride.In THE MAURITIUS COMMAND Aubrey is awarded a commodore 's pennant his career continues to rise . Maturin 's career as an intelligence officer and master of political influence is given prominent place as well.There are the requisite actions at sea some of which do not feature Aubrey centrally . There is less of the romance novel aspect that slowed the story down in POST CAPTAIN.Aside from the usual attention to historical details in describing life in the turnofthenineteenth century Royal Navy at least from the standpoint of the officers O'Brian continues his mastery of verbal and nonverbal interaction between characters . One gets a real feel for what these men are like in the way they respond to one another . What 's more O'Brian has a light hand in it his humor emerges at the most opportune times.THE MAURITIUS COMMAND stands alone as a book better than the previous two novels this novel has both a clear beginning and a clear ending . I nonetheless recommend reading the series from the beginning with MASTER AND COMMANDER . If you too fall in love with the books welcome to the club my friend ! ",4
"I would have given this a 5 star rating but one downside to the author 's early Aubrey Maturin books is the seemingly dire need to tell the reader about every inch of every ship every nuance of all minutae of all things maritime and rather than add it detracts but this does not happen with the later books . But overcoming all that is the fantastic ability to tell a story of life at sea and on land for Jack and Stephen the author also handles supporting characters and subplots with aplomb . You will notice with this that things are a little less maritimedetail heavy and allows the tale to roar along . All in all be patient accept the author 's obsessions and foibles without them I do n't think we would have got anything being honest and you will enjoy this saga from the series in which Mauritius and certain strategic points have to be retaken for the British while at the same time Jack has to be wary of officerrivalries maybe even deal with a 'shy ' officer IF suspicions are confirmed as well as cocommand a Sharpe Hornblower style combined service operation . So a 4 starrer chomping at the bit to be a 5 star it is and all things considered very well deserved . ",3
"Number 4 in the series is another good read . The interesting relationships among the characters continues to keep me buying the next volume in the series . However I really feel like the real stars of the show are the ships themselves . ",4
"Over the years I have read almost all of the AubreyMaturin novels and I have enjoyed them but this one was new to me and was a disappointment . The engagements were all conducted against a kind of generic background where in reality Mauritius in particular has a quite dramatic volcanic skyline and the fauna the dodo had only recently gone extinct still show the sort of evolutionary drift that should have transfixed Maturin . Instead we maneuvered in and out of bays and inlets that might as well have been off New Jersey . Shipboard life in the Georgian navy was as usual vividly rendered but Admiralty politics while referred to Jack was made an acting Commodore for the assignment were downplayed and Napoleon was thousands of miles away . One got the impression that the French and British fleets were sort of killing time fighting from force of habit . A potboiler in narrative and purpose . Do n't bother . ",2
"This book is best savored in the audio format . Narrator Simon Vance superbly delivers an almost impossibly complex job of rendering different characters in different voices . As a result the compete nuances of Regency period language are there to be savored . And of course the writing itself is simply unequalled . ",4
"At the end of the previous novel in the series Jack Aubrey is returning home to England and marriage to his beloved Sophie dreaming of the rosy future.Here in the opening chapters of The Mauritius Command is that future and they are some of the most sustained humorous scenes of the entire Canon . Poor Jack marriage is n't quite what he imagined it to be ! But all too soon we are away on another cruise with Stephen Maturin this time with a temporary promotion to Commodore and the flying of a broad pendant to mark the fact . There 's glory for you ! The bulk of the novel concerns the more or less historical campaign to win back Mauritus from the French and it is here that I venture a word of criticism for Patrick O'Brian bound himself a little too tightly with the actual history and has to resort to some literary strategems to keep up with the sometimes confusing action.But that 's by the by and along the way we meet some fascinating new characters revisit some happy old ones and spend a reasonable amount of time doing the things that make a Patrick O'Brian novel so well worth reading.I enjoyed this book very much hence the five star rating for even a Patrick O'Brian book a trifle off his usual pace is a very good book indeed.It is a good selfcontained adventure very rare in this series where a journey quite often takes four books or so to come to a conclusion and it comes with the necessary maps at the beginning and an excellent essay on Jack Aubrey 's ships at the end including extracts from the plans of the dear old Surprise.An excellent read and the pleasure is enhanced by the marvellous Geoff Hunt painting on the cover . ",4
"Mr. Brown has no abilities with accents . Hence the Irish Maturin sounds the same as his English friend Jack . Even Worse Mr. Brown has almost no acting abiltiy . He reads in a sing song voice that is painful to hear . The Only reason I continued to listen to this abomination was that I wanted to follow the series and this was the cassette the library had . Avoid this version at all costs unless you want to increase your appreciation for Patrick Tull . ",0
"Aficionados of O'Brian 's seafaring novels from the Napoleonic Wars all have their favorites . Of the 20 AubreyMaturin novels this one may be the best in many ways . Captain Aubrey 's career seems on the fast track maybe fast tack given the themein this episode in which he takes the rank of Commodore and sails a small fleet to wrest Mauritius from the foul and most foreign French.His companion Dr. Stephen Maturin comes into his own in this episode showing his full talents as an intelligence agent and giving an idea of the resources at his command . There are setbacks of course but the combimnations of land and sea warfare are engaging . Many of the other staple charcaters of the series also really begin to bloom in this installment.If you have come this far in the series do not hesitate buy this adventure and sail forth . May the weather gauge be with you ! ",4
"As the Wars of Napoleon continue unabated at land and on the high seas Captain Jack Aubrey languishes in England with no ship to command no missions to accomplish . Fortunately for Lucky J. Aubrey and the reader Stephen Maturin his erstwhile companion ship 's surgeon and naval intelligence agent arrives on the scene with a new command for Aubrey and a mission of the greatest importance to the Royal Navy . Two strategically critical islands in the southern Indian Ocean have been seized and fortified by the French navy and turned into bases of operation for a handful of Bonaparte 's frigates preying upon the British trade to and from India . Captain Aubrey given the temporary rank of Commodore is dispatched to take command of a squadron coordinate with an expeditionary army regiment gathering nearby and capture Mauritius and la'Reunion as usual answering to the contrary at his own peril . Stephen Maturin traveling with his old friend again is instructed by naval intelligence to utilize his own unique skills as an operative to bring the initiative back to the British forces . It is these islands Mauritius and la'Reunion that provide the martial backdrop of this latest adventure in the Aubrey Maturin Series.The novel is one of O'Brian 's better which is saying a good deal starting with this story 's predecessor HMS Surprise O'Brian begins to reach his real stride as the author of this much beloved series . Both Aubrey and Maturin are showcased and their adventures are thrilling to read . Putting Aubrey to the test he is given a squabbling set of Captains to manage Army colleagues to coordinate and senior Admirals to dodge not to mention the French frigates and ground forces as his adversaries . Stephen Maturin for his part deals with the intricacies of subversion as well as his usual recollections on human nature life at sea and a growing addiction to laudanum an opiate.Exciting interesting thoughtprovoking at times funny any Patrick O'Brian book is a good read and this is one of his best . ",4
"Some critics have referred to the AubreyMaturin books as one long novel united not only by their historical setting but also by the central plot element of the AubreyMaturin friendship . Having read these fine books over a period of several years I decided to evaluate their cumulative integrity by reading them consecutively in order of publication over a period of a few weeks . This turned out to be a rewarding enterprise . For readers unfamiliar with these books they describe the experiences of a Royal Navy officer and his close friend and traveling companion a naval surgeon . The experiences cover a broad swath of the Napoleonic Wars and virtually the whole globe.Rereading all the books confirmed that O'Brian is a superb writer and that his ability to evoke the past is outstanding . O'Brian has numerous gifts as a writer . He is the master of the long careful description and the short telling episode . His ability to construct ingenious but creditable plots is firstrate probably because he based much of the action of his books on actual events . For example some of the episodes of Jack Aubrey 's career are based on the life of the famous frigate captain Lord Cochrane . O'Brian excels also in his depiction of characters . His ability to develop psychologically creditable characters through a combination of dialogue comments by other characters and description is tremendous . O'Brien 's interest in psychology went well beyond normal character development some books contain excellent case studies of anxiety depression and mania.Reading O'Brien gives vivid view of the early 19th century . The historian Bernard Bailyn writing of colonial America stated once that the 18th century world was not only preindustrial but also prehumanitarian paraphrase . This is true as well for the early 19th century depicted by O'Brien . The casual and invariable presence of violence brutality and death is a theme running through all the books . The constant threats to life are the product not only of natural forces beyond human control particularly the weather and disease but also of relative human indifference to suffering . There is nothing particularly romantic about the world O'Brien describes but it also a certain grim grandeur . O'Brien also shows the somewhat transitional nature of the early 19th century . The British Navy and its vessals were the apogee of what could be achieved by preindustrial technology . This is true both of the technology itself and the social organization needed to produce and use the massive sailing vessals . Aubrey 's navy is an organization reflecting its society an order based on deference rigid hierarchy primitive notions of honor favoritism and very very corrupt . At the same time it was one of the largest and most effective bureaucracies in human history to that time . The nature of service exacted great penalities for failure in a particularly environment and great success was rewarded greatly . In some ways it was a ruthless meritocracy whose structure and success anticipates the great expansion of government power and capacity seen in the rest of the 19th century.O'Brian is also the great writer about male friendship . There are important female characters in these books but since most of the action takes place at sea male characters predominate . The friendship between Aubrey and Maturin is the central armature of the books and is a brilliant creation . The position of women in these books is ambiguous . There are sympathetic characters notably Aubrey 's long suffering wife . Other women figures notably Maturin 's wife leave a less positive impression . On board ship women tend to have a disruptive even malign influence.How did O'Brian manage to sustain his achievement over 20 books ? Beyond his technical abilities as a writer and the instrinsic interest of the subject O'Brien made a series of very intelligent choices . He has not one but two major protagonists . The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully . This is quite difficult and I 'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period . O'Brian 's use of his historical setting is very creative . The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies . The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters . O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences . Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels as adventure stories as suspense novels and even one as a legal thriller . O'Brian was also a very funny writer successful at both broad low humor and sophisticated wit . Finally O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together . While a number are complete in themselves others form components of extended multibook narratives . Desolation Island Fortune of War and The Surgeon 's Mate are one such grouping . Treason 's Harbor The Far Side of the World and The Reverse of the Medal are another . The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books centered around a circumnavigation are another.Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high some are better than others . I suspect that different readers will have different favorites . I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements . The first book Master and Commander is one of my favorites . The last 2 or 3 while good are not as strong as earlier books . I suspect O'Brian 's stream of invention was beginning to diminish . All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order . ",4
"The fourth in Patrick O'Brian 's wonderful seagoing series . O'Brian does not disappoint as Captain Aubrey and Stephen Maturin do battle against the French in the Indian Ocean . Here the plot turns on psychological profiles . Aubrey commands a squadron of ships and each captain is a different study Pym steady but unimaginative Clonfert vainglorious insecure and unpredictable Corbett daring but brutal and Colonel Keating steady and brave . And there are Aubrey and Maturin separately and together musing upon the different elements in each of the captain 's characters . As the action progresses each captain is led into crisis and each benefits and suffers by his particular choices.In some respects The Mauritius Command at 348 pages in the Norton edition may be too short . Clonfert is the captain we come to know best the others are not as fully drawn because we spend no time aboard their ships . Also the final assault on Mauritius is reduced to a few throwaway lines on the last page as though O'Brian turned away from the book unfinished and simply chose not to write the last two chapters . The book is a good one O'Brian 's intentions are clear . The captains ' stark choices are grounded more in their personalities than the circumstances of the struggle . Their fates are sealed long before they join Aubrey in the Indian Ocean . The Mauritius Command is a thrilling psychological study . ",4
"The opening of THE MAURITIUS COMMAND finds Lucky Jack Aubrey married poor and bored . He is without a command on half pay and doing no more than tinkering with his telescopes . Happily his particular friend Stephen Maturin comes bearing glad tidings an assignment leading an expedition to capture the Frenchheld islands of Mauritius and La Reunion just east of Madagascar.Unlike the previous novels where Jack commands a vessel usually unattached from joint maneuvers he here commands several ships . Unfortunately the Commodore as Jack is temporarily called has a problem the captains of the three primary ships are troublesome . Lord Clonfert nurses a long held jealously of Jack 's fame and success and has a tendency for selfpromotion and showmanship . Pym is solid but in the end lacks judgment in battle . Corbett is the polar opposite of Jack in regard to discipline . While Jack believes in discipline he staunchly believes that brutality and frequent punishment is both cruel and counterproductive leading to an unhappy ship . Corbett on the other hand is a savage disciplinarian and keeps his crew on the edge of mutiny.All of the novels in the series have their unique appeal and this one delights in its chronicling the course of a single campaign a campaign that O'Brian notes is based quite closely on real events . The novel is also superb in its setting in a locale of which most readers will be utterly unfamiliar . It is also fun because more than in the previous novels Stephen Maturin plays a more prominent role as an intelligence officer and his work on the islands in fermenting rebellion against the French is as crucial as Jack 's role in leading the military expedition.I would caution anyone tempted to read O'Brian to start with the very first novel and work from the first to the last . I deeply love these books but they do not stand alone . ",4
"AS A CHILD I READ ALL OF THE HORATIO HORNBLOWER SERIES AND I NEVER THOUGHT ANYONE WOULD EVER MATCH HIM . O'BRIAN IS AN ADULT 'S HORNBLOWER WRITER . I DO N'T THINK THAT I WOULD HAVE LIKED HIM WHEN I WAS A CHILD . AS AN ADULT I DO N'T THINK HORATIO MEASURES UP TO JACK AUBREY . ",3
"not quite as good as the first three in this series in my opinion . The quality of O'Brian 's writing is as good as ever with wonderful dialogue and descriptions . O'Brian does move the development of his main characters Aubrey and Maturin forward Aubrey has mellowed and aged a little and now has the joys and burdens of having a wife and kids . It seems to me from this book that O'Brian did not intend for this series to continue on for nearly as many volumes as it did . For example the Mauritius Campaign took place in 1810 only a few years before the end of the Napoleonic Wars . The previous book HMS Suprise seems to have taken place approximately five years before a lot of prime war years were wasted . This book develops some interesting characters particularly Captain Clonfert . The problem with this book is that a lot of time is taken up with our heros sailing here and there without much exciting happening . The ending is somewhat suspenseful but not as much so as the previous three books . All in all it is still a very good book but the series loses just a little of its freshness and originality . ",3
"I can only say be careful because you wo n't be able to read very many other authors after reading Mr. O'Brian 's work . I purchased and in disgust discarded several books immediately after reading this series and did that each time I reread the series . I will unashamedly admit I have read the Aubrey and Maturin series at least 10 times and am looking forward to reading it yet again . So much of the drivel out there on the Bestseller shelf is written so that a person with the reading comprehension skills of a 9th grader can understand it and let 's face it that 's probably 80 % of the folks in America but that is not the case with these books.I as you can probably tell absolutely love this series . ",4
"It 's now part of literary legend that J.K. Rowling wrote the final chapter of the final book of her beloved Harry Potter series well before she wrote even half the novels . She knew how the story was going to end and she said that allowed her to keep a tight rein on the characters and resist the temptation to let the series spin out of control.One wonders how Patrick O'Brian was able to keep his beloved characters Lucky Jack Aubrey and Dr. Stephen Maturin under such control over a series almost three times as long as Rowling 's . The Mauritius Command is the fourth book in this amazing series and O'Brian shows a deft command over both his subject matter and his characters . Often by the fourth book in a series the characters start to grow dull . Not only does the reader get the sense of retrodding the same ground the author has to somehow overcome the sense that his characters are invincible.O'Brian avoids both of these pratfalls with apparent ease . Lucky Jack may be lucky at sea but he finds new and innovative ways of getting in trouble on land . Now not only is he ashore with no ship and on halfpay he must contend with his recently destitute motherinlaw and a brace of twins girls no less . Dr. Maturin arrives with the promise of a command and a daring mission to take two Frenchcontrolled islands off Madagascar . Soon Aubrey is at the helm of a ship but in addition to his usual cares and concerns he must now cope with being a Commodore commander over several ships including several whose captains carry several tragic flaws . These various scenarios allow Aubrey to experience fresh troubles with which he has no actual experience and wonder whether his old tactics will see him through.Dr . Maturin continues to grow as a character as well as in practical significance to the storyline . In Master and Commander he was basically a bystander an observer of the naval action around him . Now his role as an intelligence man read spy becomes more important as he plays a vital role in helping the British governor assume his station . . . including playing a game of propaganda warfare against the French . Maturin also gets a few chances to practice his amazing surgical skills breaks a few bones and is confronted with his dedication to opium.Not quite as funny as previous books no drunken sloths to be seen but with a little more action The Mauritius Command is a defining book in this series . Even though this book according to some can be read out of sequence I disagree since Aubrey 's temporary promotion to Commodore falls in line with the other books . ",4
"Tight elegant story telling combined with strong historical research make this series intensely enjoyable . The complex narrative is interlaced with careful reconstructions of historical Royal Navy ship actions . These are page turners and the Mauritius Command is particularly tight . ",4
"is with me stillworking my way through Patrick Obrians sea stories and I shall be so sorry to get to the last one . This isi truly great writing and the smell of the sea and tar and oakum ",4
"THE MAURITIUS COMMAND the fourth novel in the series by Richard Patrick Russ 19142000 writing under the nom de plume of Patrick O'Brian is a distinct improvement over one of its predecessors POST CAPTAIN . RussO'Brian seems to have abandoned his annoying experiments in writing techniques and has settled down to more or less a simple straightforward narrative style which is imminently more readable.As in earlier volumes this book does not continue precisely where its predecessor left off . However in this case the missing events are easily understood and reconstructed in the reader 's consciousness . We do find that Jack Aubrey 's marriage to Sophie is not precisely fulfilling for him not surprisingly we find that Aubrey 's first love remains the sea and that he is not exactly the model of a perfect spouse . Of course if one reads the author 's reallife biography RussO'Brian was far from a perfect husband and one wonders whether he has somewhat patterned Aubrey after himself but let us not read too much into that.Soon Aubrey is called to sea again and the maritime action resumes and continues throughout the remainder of the book . Unlike POST CAPTAIN this volume does not ramble for pages and pages about Aubrey 's floundering onshore life thank goodness.If one has a creative imagination he could actually begin with THE MAURITIUS COMMAND but the reader will certainly have a more complete appreciation of the characters if he has begun with the first volume MASTER AND COMMANDER and has approached each successive volume in order POST CAPTAIN then HMS SURPRISE and only then THE MAURITIUS COMMAND . Perhaps we should consider each novel as an additional chapter in one extraordinarily lengthy book . This is not necessarily a criticism just a caution to a reader who might be tempted to sample RussO'Brian 's work by starting in the middle of the series.The author does engage in some character development and by this fourth book the person of Dr. Stephen Maturin has become more complex that we suspected at first . Not only is he an unusually gifted physician but it seems as though he has shadowy political connections and is as instrumental as a secret agent as he is as a doctor . While this certainly provides a most interesting twist to the character of the good doctor I sense that RussO'Brian is learning about his creation at the same time we are . I do not feel that he prepared us for this sort of complication in Maturin 's nature . While I enjoy the increased complexity in the doctor I am not at all sure that the author intended this from the beginning but suspect that he may be developing his characters by whim rather than by intent.THE MAURITIUS COMMAND keeps the reader entertained throughout its length but after having now read four books in the series I feel that RussO'Brian is a somewhat superficial writer who realizes that he should paint some complexity into his characters to keep them from becoming mere stereotypes but does not quite understand how to do this . As a writer he is certainly superior to the authors of what we used to call dime novel bodicerippers but he is far from displaying the skill of a C. S. Forrester or a Herman Melville.I would suggest that the AubreyMaturin series of maritime adventure books is decent entertainment but that the novels are not especially memorable . I also find myself wondering whether the surface action that is the plot or superficial story line may not become repetitious and boring before one reaches the end of the multibook series . I 'm actually hoping that RussO'Brian will mature more fully as an author as he accrues more experience in writing the future volumes . We shall see how he handles the fifth book DESOLATION ISLAND next . ",2
"The Mauritius Command is a first rate piece of historical fiction . Patrick O'Brian deftly weaves this swashbuckling nautical tale into the historical account of the British retaking the Mauritius Islands . Lucky Jack Aubrey with a little help from Stephen Maturin becomes a Commodore and leads his squadron of ships into battle with the French.A new father Jack Aubrey leaves behind his wife to venture out to the Indian Ocean . His wife Sophie lost her dowry and story begins with Jack hurting for money . So the opportunity to have command and be back on full pay is most welcome . Commodore Aubrey 's command is complicated by the personalities of his subordinate commanders . Maturin comes out of the closet and works his espionage in the open.With victory just within his grasp Admiral Bertie arrives to take command and the credit away from Jack . Despite that setback Lucky Jack stills finishes on top.I highly recommend this book . ",3
"Meet Harry Flashman one of the most lovabledespicable rogues you 'll ever encounter a man whohas absolutely no virtues or conscience . This is aman who would betray his friends at the drop of ahat provided that the betrayal it was useful aman who invented the love them and leave themphilosophy a man who will say or do anything toescape with his own hide.But he is also a man who is destined to be wherethe action is so in his various adventures hemeets Abraham Lincoln is involved in the famouscharge of the light brigade becomes friends of asort with Bismarck . But through his eyes we seehistory just a bit different.There are seven volumes so far in George Frasier'sseries but the one I think you 'll enjoy best isFlashman and the Redskins . Set in the old Westthe novel tells of Flashman 's encounters with menlike Will Bill Hickock Geronomo Kit CarsonCrazy Horse and George Custer . The culmination ofhis adventures is the most famous of the Westernbattles Custer 's defeat at the Little Big Horn.But Flashman does n't spend all his time fightingIndians . He would much rather be in the arms of abeautiful woman . And he succeeds in this endeavornot once but several times during the course ofthe novel . First we meet Susie the madam of abrothel he happens to encounter on his way west.Of course he ca n't remain faithful to her forlong not with all those other women the slutsas he calls them that are so available . Finallyhe must abandon his new family to continue hisjourney but that does n't end his womanizing . Whenhe is captured by the Apaches he saves his lifeby seducing the chief 's daughter ! And we don'twant to miss the mysterious Mrs. Candy who takeshim on his last journey west.But the joy of this book is not just the marvelousadventures Flashman has nor is it the great character Fraserhas created a man you love to hate . This is a book where thelanguage is equal to the story . As Flashman describes his nearbrushes with death we can feel his fear fear that he is ableto cover up when others are around.This is a book that will keep you on the edge of your seat butyou 'd best hold on tight or you 'll fall off laughing.NOTE Since one of Flashman 's characteristics is his amorousnature there are several rather ribald passages . They are notpornographic or vulgar but they are suggestive . I found themquite funny but if they bother you just skip a few paragraphsand you 'll be in safe territory again . ",3
"Great read about two different time frames on the old west . Flashman of course is in the drink in more ways than one . . ",4
"I usually enjoy the Flashman books more or less depending on my engagement with their historical content and generally I 'm not big on westerns . But this was like one of the great Hollywood films in the way it captured the majesty and adventure of the West with humor and satire sprinkled throughout . In 1849 Flashy participates in the Gold Rush 27 years later he returns in time to become the sole white survivor of Custer 's Last Stand . The greatest chase of the entire Flashman series occurs about halfway through with a murderous Apache war party pursuing Sir Harry across the New Mexican desert . Reading it I literally could n't breathe when it was over I choked up over Fraser 's sheer storytelling brilliance . What a writer ! ",4
"flash jumps around a bib in this adventure but in the west his manner improved form deplorable to tolerably despicable.I do n't think it would be amused with the O & H show tune I want to be an Indian too would n't you ? Like a Sioux ! .But he honest shows a slice of what the encroaching society effect were on the fictional charterers and there action and reaction to the new world . As far as the locals heck it was their street corner so I wo n't make any judgment . ",4
"What a character is Colonel Harry Paget Flashman ! Winner of the Victoria Cross the Congressional Medal of Honor and a veteran of wars fought in Africa India China the Malay Peninsula Madagascar and other locales . Handsome Flashman is over six feet tall and is a swashbuckling ladies man ! All women old young shorttall slim and fat easily fall prey to his seductive charms ! Flashman was a character in Thomas Hughes ' Tom Brown 's Schooldayswho was expelled by Dr. Thomas Arnold of Rugby . Charles Macdonald Frazer takes Flashman and uses him in his long series of novels on this complex rogue.Flashman and the Redskins is a novel divided into two partsPart One Flashman is back in the United States fleeing a murder charge . In New Orleans he is reacquainted with the old seadog nemesis the infamous Captain John Charity Spring . Flashy is forced to flee New Orleans before the law and his enemies catch up with him . He escapes with a bordello of black prostitutes under the leadership of the busty madam who hides Flashy . On their way West the girls and Flashy have to deal with maurading Indians . Flashy has sex with one of the prostitutes . In part two he will learn that as a result of this union he has a son who has grown up as a Sioux Indian . Flashy is captured by the Indians is forced into a marriage with the Chief 's daughter and after six months escapes across the blazing sands . He is rescued by Kit Carson.Part II It is 187576 . Flashman returns to America with his lovely but dumb wife Elspeth . The Flashmans attend the wedding of General Phil Sheridan in Chicago . Flashman pleads with President US Grant to allow General George Armstrong Custer to return to leadership of the 7th Cavalry . Grant concedes to Flashy 's request . Adventures abound as Flashy takes part in the Battle of Little Big Horn being rescued by his Indian son.All of the Flashman novels are narrated in the first person by the elderly Flashman who is supposedly writing his memoirs.The books are well written with incredible detail on the lives of the American Indians and what life was like in Victorian America . The sex scenes are short and handled with taste . Fraser 's books are always a delight ! Everytime I peruse one I thhik that this novel is the best in the series ! Once you read one Flashman novel you will wish to read them all ! Excellent ! ",4
"This is one of the two best of the Flashman series the other being the first one Flashman . To understand the beginning situation one needs to have read Flash For Freedom as the two stories fit seamlessly together . In his desperate striving to stay ahead of the law and various revengeseekers and somehow get back to safety in England our hero winds up in an unusual wagon train heading for California as part of the 1849 gold rush . His description of the great plains back in what he calls the earlies makes you wish you could have ridden beside him at least through the calmer part of the journey . But you 'll be glad not to accompany him racing for his life across the Jornada del Muerto before a squad of outraged Apaches or escaping with most of his hair from the battlefield of the Little Big Horn . ",4
"I love this entire series but in my opinion this one is the best.Fraser is a wonderful writer and Flashman is by far his best character . It 's easy probably too easy to dismiss Flashy as a coward and a poltroon who has more than his own share of luck . One of the things I most enjoy about Flashman and the Redskins is that this book presents the most complete view of Harry Flashman . He is indeed lucky . He is dishonest . He is cowardly . He tries very hard to avoid his duty . BUT when the chips are down he 's there and he behaves in a pretty competent manner . He 's frequently scared to death but he functions and functions pretty well . As one of the characters in the novel observes he got the train through.As an aside the introductory pages in this book where an aged Flashman is confronted by a booklearned expert on native Americans may be the funniest and most engaging bit of prose I 've ever read.I highly recommend this book but if you 've not read Fraser before you really should begin with the first book in the series Flashaman and work your way to this one . ",4
"While I enthusiastically recommend this Flashman volume I ca n't agree with Gryphon that it one of the two best . The original Flash Flash at the Charge Mountain of Light and Flash and the Dragon are all better IMO . The major problem with Redskins is that it 's divided into two distinct halves each covering two different and widely separated historical periods . As a result it has the marked feel of two books tossed together as one because they both happened to deal with the American West . Like Gryphon I preferred the first half over the second . The second which deals with the Little Big Horn smacks of too much borrowing from Little Big Man . The same derivative flaw which tainted Royal Flash which is in my view the worst of the series . Still it 's the largest of the 10 and broad and entertaining in its scope . Do n't miss it . ",3
"_Flashman and the Redskins_ is essentially two stories tied together with the common thread of the American West . As Harry Flashman cad womanizer cheat theif and coward and also a Knight of the Bath recipient of the Congressional Medal of Honor and Victoria Cross winds his way through the West readers are treated to a veritable Who 's Who of the time.The first half of the book is about the opening of the West as Harry travels the Oregon and Santa Fe trails to California as a '49er . Along the way he makes the acquaintance of such largerthanlife personalities as Kit Carson Gallatin Mangas Colorado and Geronimo . The second half of the book Harry returns West to meet the likes of Geo . Custer Spotted Tail Crazy Horse Anson Mills Wild Bill Hickock and a surprise for both Flashman and the reader.The history of course is impeccable . Fraser takes readers across the West from Independence MO to Santa Fe north to Ft. Laramie from Ft. Robinson the Little Big Horn and finally Deadwood . Quite an adventure indeed . In the middle of it all is Harry Flashman ever the scoundrel and this book will not disappoint as Harry is more devilish than usual . It was a pretty involved and lengthy read but with so much material and so many personalities to cover it was very much worthwhile . ",3
"Gearge MacDonald Fraser 's Flashman is one of the most fantastical characters ever created and Flashman and the Redskins was my favorite.History was never so humorous . ",4
"The seventh entry in the Flashman series is two books in one . The book picks up whereFlash for Freedom ! Flashmanended . It 's 1849 and Flash is in New Orleans on the run from the law . He reacquaints himself with Susie Wilnick a local madam who is moving her brothel west to join the flood of Forty Niners heading to California . Flash marries again but even at great personal risk he can not help his roving eyesand hands and so forth.He leaves Susie along the west and in order to take his leave he commits a deed that is shameful even by Harry Flashman 's standards . He then begins a wild trip across the Old West even living with Apaches for awhile where he weds yet again . Along the way the reader meets many historical characters including Spotted Tail John Joel Glanton Mangas Coloradas Geronimo and Kit Carson . One of the more interesting historical bits involves Bent 's Fort and its mysterious destruction . Harry was there and resolves the mystery.As always Fraser deflates the mythology surrounding historical figures . This characteristic debunking is a bit odd because Fraser believed the mythology about his own army and his own war the Indian 17th Division of the British Army fighting in Burma during the last months of World War Two See his war memoirQuartered Safe Out Here A Harrowing Tale of World War II.Flashman manages to escape the Apaches and returns to England . In Part Two Elspeth his ` real ' English wife convinces Harry to return to the States which introduces us to even more historical figures and eventually lands Harry right in the midst of the Battle of the Little Big Horn . I found the first part more entertaining and the ending was more than a bit of stretch.Fraser is a marvelous story teller and as he spins out his entertaining tales one also picks up a good deal of history . The reader should exercise caution in accepting Fraser 's history . His version tends to be based on older sources and he eschewed more modern works and certainly rejected modern viewpoints . Enjoy it for what it is welltold speculations on historical mysteries . While some will be offended by Flashman 's views on women Indians Africans and other people of color in fairness he also did not generally hold other white men in high regard perhaps because Harry knew what a scoundrel he was himself . ",4
"Harry Flashman Victorian England 's unlikely hero the unknown ace of cads is up to his old tricks . He travels to the American west with a traveling bordello goes on a scalphunting party marries an Apache chief 's daughter and rides out with Kit Carson in '49 . Then it 's back to the West in '79 so he can attend the massacre at Little Bighorn and almost be scalped by Frank Standing Bear who turns out to have a very reasonable grudge against our antihero . Whew ! As always Fraser is a raconteur of humor and wit and a historian of astonishing erudition . His depth of research is commendable and would be even if he did n't use it to make every nuance of historical events more human and understandable . This book while light reading is hilarious and instructive it 's a towering achievement . ",3
"A great delight of the Flashman series is to watch George MacDonald Fraser place Harry Flashman his ubiquitous antihero in great historical events and then to see this loathsome yet endearing character emerge as a hero . In FLASHMAN AND THE REDSKINS Fraser achieves this daunting feat twice once in each novella that makes up this fine book.In the first novella The FortyNiner Fraser shows Flashman escaping from New Orleans where there is a warrant for his arrest See FLASH FOR FREEDOM ! and traveling on the Santa Fe Trail during the 1849 gold rush . Then in The SeventySixer Fraser shows Flashman 's adventure in the Dacotah Territory and his amazing escape from the Battlea skirmish really the soldier Flash repeatedly saysof the Little Bighorn.Flashman fans who look to these novels for striking descriptions of events as they might have occurred will not be disappointed in this book . In The FortyNiner Fraser captures the danger and innocence of wagon train travel as well as the brutal fringes of early western American life where massacre was a risk faced by all . And in The SeventySixer Fraser paints a plausible and historically accurate picture of Custer while showing the aggressive blunders that led to the destruction of his Seventh Cavalry . How many of you know that Custer was actually attacking a small city of Sioux ? In my opinion Fraser also does a great job with his Indians in both novellas communicating lots of information about the Indian way of life especially among the Apache and Sioux . Here thanks for these eyeopening portrayals goes to the disillusioned Flashman who sees Fraser 's Indian characters and tribes without sentimentality or hatred . There 's good and bad as well as a drive to survive in us all Flashman might say.I must declare however that the connection between these novellasa dastardly act by Flashy in The FortyNiners that produces its equivalent reciprocating act in The SeventySixerswas a wee bit farfetched . But who cares ? The novellas in FLASHMAN AND THE REDSKINS were a delight throughout . Highly recommended ! ",4
"Through all the slurry of racism and sludge of curmudgeonly conservatism in the Flashman books of which I 've previously reviewed five there have been two shining qualities that have kept me reading . First is the galloping humor the sharp satire of almost everything sacred . Second is the historicism the assurance that within the fiction there is a core of pertinent historical scholarship . Unfortunately in Flashman and the Redskins the humor is less than fresh and the scholarship is dismal . In fact the only part of the book worth reading is the first section in New Orleans where Flash 's scoundrely luck holds true . The wagon train journey that delivers Flash to Santa Fe wallows deeper than buffalo droppings in inaccurate geography and ludicrous descriptions of trail events . The fleeting appearances of Redskins along the trail do not have the accuracy or the ring of accuracy of Fraser 's writing about Pathans and other peoples of the Raj . I can think of two possible reasons both irritating 1 Fraser is just as inaccurate about the Pathans and such but I do n't know enough to catch him at it or 2 Fraser does n't suppose that conditions in America require the same level of research that conditions in the British Empire require.In any case I 'm gon na stall on reading any more of the series for a couple of years or decades . It 's getting repetitive . Besides various commentators on my earlier reviews have assured me that Fraser really did mean much of the nonsense Flashman spouts that Fraser was as much an insular chauvinist as Paul Goodman that he sincerely believed the British Empire was largely a boon to the dusky races sunk in their ageold lethargy that if only the White Man had Borne his Burden long enough the world would now be nigh unto paradise . The implication my friends is that enthusiastic readers of the Flashman books are getting their jollies from deriding colored people demeaning women and in general escaping the selfcensorship of their vilest thoughts which they reluctantly learned in school and from the ineluctable reality of modern life . Sharing a sneer with my neighborhood racist is n't much fun after all . ",2
"Flashman and the Redskins is quite amusing and does offer some interesting insights and the book put me onto other more objective accounts notably Cremony 's Life among the Apaches . But while I enjoy MacDonald I find his tendency to overstate similarities between the vices of westerners and those who meet them he is not willing to recognise the virtues of westerners and benefits they have brought to the rest of the worldof course his iconoclasm is part of a vogue that has persisted for close to 50 years . It must be close to its use by date.I also found MacDonald 's labouring on Custer 's neuroticism and childish temperamentalism excessive . I doubt he would have been made a brigadier in his 20 's or after the Civil War even been put in command of a battalion of cavalry if he did not demonstrate maturity leadership and strategic sensibility . MacDonald does n't really give enough attention of the inferior quality of the weapons of the 7th cavalry compared to that of the Sioux and Cheyenne and that Custer 's detachment was outnumbered by up to 10 to 1 . He tries too hard like many apologists to aggrandise the Indian victory . But at least he admits to the savage brutality of Sitting Bull . ",3
"The seventh installment in the Flashman Papers is by far the longest at 479 pages . The reason is that Flashman and the Redskins is really two books in one one recounting Flashman 's exploits as a '49er scalphunter and adopted Apache and another with his involvement in the Battle of the Little Bighorn . The two stories are selfcontained and only tertiarily connected and there 's little need for them to be compiled into one volume.After opening with an aged Flashman putting down a soppy idealist bemoaning the fate of the Native Americans Fraser at his most pointed irreverent and funny the first half is a direct sequel to Flash for Freedom with Flashman and Latinspewing slaver John Charity Spring fleeing the law going to California with a New Orleans madam and a wagonload of whores . The first half is Fraser at his best with intricate plotting colorful characters particularly the ghoulish scalphunters exciting action pleasant bawdiness a vivid description of places and events and Fraser 's usual acidic humor . Flashy 's exploits in New Mexico would stand alone as one of the best in the series if Fraser had left wellenough alone.The second half of the book on the other hand is pretty much useless . The Battle of Little Bighorn has been covered in numerous films books and other works and Fraser adds little to the littany of Custerrelated literature . Indeed with Flashman flitting back and forth between the Indians and Cavalry it smacks more than a bit of Little Big Man . The ties to the first part mostly through Flashman 's spurned lover Cleonie are poorly done and Flashman 's illegitimate son is tacked on as a mere plot contrivance.My biggest problem though is that there 's no need for the second half . Flash For Freedom ! covered a great deal of time and space but all the events were connected improbably but believably through intricate detailed plotting and related events and characters . Flashman at the Charge was less successful covering too much time and space but at least there was flow and connection between scenes . The leap of twentyseven years here is a cheat and since each Flashman book is essentially selfcontained its inclusion is inexplicable . It should have been published separately if at all . ",2
"I never did learn to speak Apache properly . Mind you it ai n't easy mainly because the red brutes seldom stand still long enough and if you 've any sense you do n't either or you 're liable to find yourself studying their system of vowel pronunciation while hanging headdown over a slow fire or riding for dear life across the Jornada del Muerto with them howling at your heels and trying to stick lances in your liver . Sir Harry Flashman VC KCBThus begins FLASHMAN AND THE REDSKINS the seventh packet of the Flashman Papers which were discovered in a Leicestershire England saleroom in 1966 and edited by George MacDonald Fraser also the longest and funniest book in the series . This packet follows chronologically on the heels of FLASH FOR FREEDOM ! It is divided into two parts the first takes place in 1849 the second in 1876.In the first part we find Harry fleeing American justice and possibly being hanged for murder by trying to secure a berth aboard a fast ship bound for England from New Orleans by blackmailing his Latin quoting nemesis Captain John Charity Spring M.A . Oriel man slaver homicidal lunatic . Barely escaping capture he and Spring hide out in a New Orleans brothel . From here is where our lovable rogue begins his trip west enroute to the goldfields of California . Along the way he discovers the charms of a mulatto prostitute encounters blood thirsty scalp hunters and barely escapes with his hair from savage Apache warriors.The second half of FLASHMAN AND THE REDSKINS finds Sir Harry back in America in 1876 with his beautiful wife Elspeth chattering emptyheadedly by his side . Taking advantage of an opportunity to make some easy money and hoping to charm his way into the arms of yet another beautiful woman he leaves Elspeth to enjoy the society of Philadelphia while he embarks on a trip by river boat up the Missouri to scout the territory around Bismark North Dakota . Little does Flashy know what is in store for him on this supposedly safe trip . I wo n't spoil the fun but suffice it to say Custer 's Last Stand has never been written in more frighteningly entertaining prose as the deadly action swirls dangerously around our trembling antihero and his rumbling bowels.This is one of George MacDonald Fraser 's best . Unfortunately for us Flashmaniacs Mr. Fraser passed away on January 3 2008 . I for one will miss this great novelist 's knowledge of history writing skill and terrific sense of humor . As Capt . Spring would have said about GMF 's style castigat ridendo mores laughter succeeds where lecturing wo n't . ",4
"I agree with the other reviewer that this book had me completely spellbound.I 'm about half way through the flashman series and so far I 've enjoyed them all however this one as far as I 'm concerned is easily the best that I 've read.As everyone knows there is probably no event in American History that has been more warped by historians and wannabe historians then the events that transpired in relation to the various Native American tribes.Unlike just about everyone else Frazier through the mind of Flashman weeds through all the crap and tells it how it really was with all the typical Flashman flair that I 've come to expect.His creation is pure brilliance after reading this book I literally walked down to the local bookstore and bought a couple westerns including the biography of Wooten that Frazier himself recommends.This book may of just hooked me on the western genre . ",4
"He 's good history submerged in laughter . By now you are hooked . Buy it . You ca n't fight it . ",4
"I finished rereading Little Big Man and decided to reread Flashman and the Redskins which covers some of the same ground in the second half of the book.It would have been very interesting to have Flashman and Jack Crabb meet . I 've enjoyed all the Flashman books and was sorry when the author died several years ago . This novel covers events roughly twentyfive years apart the California Gold Rush and Custer 's Last Stand . Of course Flashman meets the greats and neargreats in his travels everyone from Geronimo and Crazy Horse to Kit Carson and Custer . Flashman has no illusions about himself and honestly reports on all his misdeeds which usually occur because he 's covering his own rear end . I recommend all the Flashman novels . They 're very entertaining and you 'll learn a little history . My only regret in this book is that Flashman mentions his Civil War adventures when he fought for both the North AND the South and that book never got written . ",3
"Number 7 in publication order of the Flashman Papers . This chapter brings together some previous players form earlier books in a way I did n't see coming . Flashy gets what he deserves in this one with more than one escape by the skin of his teeth . Great fun ! ",4
"There are n't many public school novels being written and read these days . Rowling 's Potter series is an exception and in my opinion they are not all that good . However if you are old enough to have read Tom Brown 's Schooldays then the Flaashman series may be of interest . If you have enjoyed Kipling 's Indian stories then Flashman is also worth a try . ",4
"George MacDonald Fraser 's love of his work just shines through in this episode . There is no need to suspend disbelief as Harry Flashman 's adventures lead from one frying pan into yet another fire . And he packs so much into a historical backdrop which is extremely well researched and informative . Very enjoyable . ",4
"The Flashman books are unabashedly politically incorrect often hilarious remarkably accurate historical novels set in the 19th Century . Our hero Harry Flashman an officer in the British military is a selfadmitted scoundrelrascalcadrogue his personal character was deplorable his conduct abandoned and his talent for mischief apparently inexhaustible . and because of his selfawareness is very likeable . Harry is usually on the run from someone the law a jealous husband or some figure of authority and during his travels meets up with historical figures and stumbles into historical events usually of the military nature inadvertently fighting the good fight . And as can be surmised Harry is never short of female companionship.The stories are told from the fictional Flashman Papers written by Harry in his twilight years edited by the author including footnotes which I encourage you to read and which were discovered in 1966 The faux authenticity only adding to the enjoyment in reading these books.In this volume a twoparter which chronicles Harry 's adventures in 184950 and 187576 we find our hero in the U.S. mostly in the Wild West with a few sojourns in New York and Washington DC . As the title suggests Flashy encounters and becomes embroiled in the Native American problem . In the first half of the book he leads a wagon train actually a bordello on the move from New Orleans to the west coast . In the second half Harry is enlisted by President Grant to aid in the negotiations with the Sioux Nation the story climaxing with Custer 's Last Stand.In the telling of the story the reader meets a cornucopia of historical figures U.S. Grant Sherman Sheridan Crazy Horse Spotted Tail Mangas Coloradas Kit Carson Wild Bill Hickok and of course Custer just to name a few . And Flashman true to form is not only in the midst of the all the action he 's the root cause in some instances and of course he has more than a few romantic liaisons along the way.If historical novels with more than a little humor are your cup of tea this volume and the Flashman series will suit you perfectly . ",4
"This is one of the better books by Fraser on Flashman 's participation in American History . Flashman is involved with the Plains Indians and the Apaches both before and after the American Civil War . ",3
"The arguably offensive title aside this is one of my favorite Flashman books out the twelve that George MacDonald Fraser was able to write . One reason may be the fact that it 's set in America but I suspect that more pertinent to my liking the novel is the resonance between its two halves . In the first Flashman joins a party journeying westward in 1849 . In the second he is present at the 1876 Battle of the Little Bighorn where he meets his past once more . As always this this series the storytelling is gripping the prose transparent and flowing and the historical research impeccable the pieces once more fit together with inevitable easy coincidence . Fraser certainly knew how to relate a tale and this is one of the best he ever constructed . ",4
"Flashman and the Redskins is as the name implies MacDonald Fraser 's treatment of the American Indian Question between the California Gold Rush years of 1849 onward and the final nail in the Indian coffin that was the Battle of Little Bighorn in 1876 . As it is impossible for Flashman to have spent 27 years continuously anywhere this is the first of the Flashman packets to be written in two halves the first when Flashman was approximately 28 years old and the second approximately 53.The first half continues immediately from the third packet Flash for Freedom ! without missing a beat . One can scarcely even tell there is a break in the authors thoughts if one reads the third and seventh packets consecutively . As the reader may recall spoiler Flashman is left begging for a berth home to England from his old overserial nemesis Cpt . J.C.S . Of course nothing can go as planned and he soon finds himself commanding a most peculiar wagon train of the FortyNiners on his way to California . He meets almost every famous name associated with the Wild West and scarcely fails to namedrop every one.The second half finds Flashman and his proper wife holidaying along the East Coast of the U.S. where Flashman revisits his Civil War days a story never written down by Macdonald Fraser alas by hobnobbing with numerous old pals from President Grant down to Colonel Custer not to mention reunions with old and famous Indian friends . Through a couple of misadventures of course he finds himself at the Battle of Little Bighorn as a quite unwilling observer and participant and we are treated to an example where 'audaces fortuna iuvat ' fortune favours the brave of course the bravery is n't that of our favourite antihero.MacDonald Fraser has Flashman at his worst and at his best in this book . From low points of unspeakable betrayal to high points of his reaction to filial piety Fraser has Flashman cover a range of behaviour as wide as all the other books combined . As always Flashman 's unscrupulous yet observant character never fails to educate and entertain.As to the Indian Question Fraser displays the same internal conflict mirrored in us all . He is sympathetic to all human beings and the plight of the invaded and subjugated native but at once also decries an oversympathetic view of this often unruly savage who was unable to come to grips with the overwhelming power of European technology and did not submit or assimilate until it was rather too late to save many of the diverse Indian cultures present in North America.Fraser 's message in this book as in many of his Flashman novels is that all people suffer from the same limitations and few deserve more or less sympathy than others . Interestingly he complements Professor Jared Diamond 's conclusions in his book Guns Germs and Steel that the only difference between one group of humans and another is their luck of birth . Europeans had the luck to inherit farming from the Arabs to allow an anachronism for a moment without destroying their environment in the process which gave them a step up over all other peoples on Earth ignoring the confounding element of modern politics . Apart from that everyone is the same especially with regard to each peoples ' ethical and moral right to space and freedom and more often than not a penchant for ignorance and cruelty.As such he shows just the same sympathy for the white European as he does the native . Interesting stuff . Funny too.The second half ends with an ominious note from the author indicating it should lead directly to another account which must at least begin with more American adventures . However this immediate next packet has never come to light . ",4
"The Flashman series is certainly a hitandmiss affair . Harry Flashman this mythical Forrest Gump on the 19th century by George MacDonald Fraser is the kind of character you love to hate . He gets all the women gets in and out of all sorts of trouble etc he 's certainly larger than life . The author cleverly uses Flashman as a vehicle to retell not rewrite history for the masses . In 'Flashman and the Redskins ' he succeeds admirably . 'Flashman and the Redskins ' is a actually two distinct books sewn together . The first half has Flashman on a wagon train from New Orleans to San Francisco . Of course impossible mishaps occur en route . But this gives the author the excellent opportunity to capture the essence of American expansion and IndianMexicanAmercian hostilities I actually learned a lot . The second half takes place 25 years later at Custer 's last stand . Again a very educational exercise . And the link between these two stories is understood at the very end . It 's unexpected and amusing . 'Flashman and the Redskins ' fortunately has little of the toilet humour found in other Flashman books . So instead of being grossed out by adolescent humour I was given a history lesson wrapped in an enjoyable story . Great deal ! ! As with the rest of the Flashman books it is strongly advised to read the first of the Flashman series before proceeding to any of the others . ",3
"This volume is the second half of Flashman 's American Adventure beginning as it does a few minutes after the end of _Flash for Freedom ! _ Harry Flashman is stuck in New Orleans and wants badly to get home to England and he thinks at first he can prevail on the bawdy house madam who cottoned to him in the previous book to let him hide out at her establishment and then book him passage . But this is the beginning of 1849 gold has been discovered in California and Susie is convinced she can make an even greater fortune by transporting her girls and her furniture to the Far West . Flashman ends up marrying her bigamously of course and becomes the titular boss of her wagon train out of Independence Missouri bound for Sacramento . Actually having met mountain men and famous frontier scouts and crossed paths with several sorts of Indians they only make it as far as Santa Fe which Susie decides is far enough . And Flashman is on his own again and to get the cash to continue his longterm escape he commits an act that is remarkably callous and brutal even for Flashy . But he does n't get far being captured this time by Apaches and getting himself married for the third time . It 's a good thing he has such a talent for languages ! But he eventually accompanies Kit Carson to Wyoming and thence home.Then we jump to the second half of this story a quartercentury later . One of the more delightful continuing themes throughout this series is Flashman 's peculiar relationship with his wife Elspeth gorgeous brainless devoted to her Gallant Sir Harry and yet as completely unprincipled and lecherous as her husband when it comes to sex . In the early days he could n't say anything about it because she controlled the pursestrings . Now in middle age they 've long since reached an accommodation . Besides Harry has never actually caught her in flagrante . Anyway Elspeth 's craving for travel is the reason Flashman is back in America in 1876 to begin with and at first he 's outraged to discover that she 's probably been off rolling in the hay with the great Lacotah chief and his old acquaintance Spotted Tail . But then he thinks as always if I 'm wrong and she 's as chaste as the mountain dew so much the better . If she 's not what 's an Indian more or less ? Because Flashman has been recruited to take part in the U.S. Government 's unenthusiastic negotiations with the Plains tribes in the wake of another gold strike this time in the Black Hills and Elspeth is along for the ride . And then his lecherous nature leads him to lend his name to a land development scheme in North Dakota and that will be his undoing as Fate and Justice come back to bite him good and hard . The upshot is that Sir Harry is bound hand and foot in a Sioux tipi on the Little Big Horn when Custer and the 7th Cavalry show up.I 've never been a Custer fan . As Flashman notes he was quite a good cavalry brigade commander during the Civil War when he also did n't have the leeway for independent action but he was a terrible army officer which is a somewhat different thing . And by the mid1870s his political ambitions were driving his selfaggrandizement to a point of such reckless disregard for reality that he had become a positive danger to those in his command . In fact Flashman makes a number of comparisons between the Sioux campaign and the Crimea regarding the lack of intelligence in the military sense the personal arrogance of those in command and the sheer stupidity of not knowing when to quit . Plus Gen. Terry was a nice man with not nearly the bloodymindedness of Lord Lucan or Colin Campbell . Plus face it Custer was an idiot so there . In any case Flashman survives the massacre as you knew he would but he does so with the timely assistance of the very last person he could have predicted . And that leads to a rather sad ending.This is I think one of the best of the entire series though I was n't crazy about _Flash for Freedom ! _ . But that may just be me . I generally have to take the author 's word for what the British Raj was like but the Old Southwest before the Civil War is a time and a place in which I have taken a very close interest for a number of decades both academically and personally . I 've been to most of the places Flashman visits I 've read every one of the books he cites as sources in his footnotes and I know a good deal about most of the major historical characters he meets and I have to say Fraser has done a splendid job of it . He genuinely makes the New Mexico desert especially come alive . I agree that it 's a beautiful and frightening place depending on the circumstances . A terrific yarn . But I have to say it 's a shame that the author died before he got around to writing of Flashman 's adventures on both sides of the American Civil War . ",3
"Flash Harry follows his usual routine ignoring the call of duty and the course of honor while advancing his own agenda and running into several worthy adversaries Wild Bill Hickok a killing gentleman Geronimo Crazy Horse Georgie Custer Kit Carson but repeatedly avoiding his just desserts and surviving after a fashionto garner fresh kudos through judicious silence blustering frank lies and misdirection and considerable cowardice . American history will never be the same . ",4
"Among fictional cads few can top George MacDonald Fraser 's Harry Flashman . Originally a villain in a 19th Century book called Tom Brown 's Schooldays Flashman was taken by Fraser and given a life far beyond that modest beginning . What makes Flashman such an outstanding character is that he is unredeemable though he rarely aspires to acts of pure malice he also never does anything worthwhile unless he can see a profit in it . He never repents from his minor evils and never really becomes a better person due to his misadventures.That said the Harry in Flashman and the Redskins is almost a kinder and gentler version of previous incarnations . At least his general cowardice greed and racism seem slightly less pronounced in this book though it 's still there . This book is the longest in the series thus far but really it is a pair of connected shorter novels.The first part of the book follows right on the heels of Flash for Freedom ! which was a couple books ago Fraser relates Flashman 's tales in a nonchronological order . It is 1849 and Harry is accidentally an accessory to murder in New Orleans . Escape involves marrying a wealthy madame who is moving her brothel to California to take advantage of the Gold Rush the fact that this is bigamy does n't faze our hero one bit . From there he will get entangled with nasty Indian hunters How bad ? Read Cormac McCarthy 's Blood Meridian which features some of the same people and is one of the most relentlessly violent books I 've ever read and later some Apaches including the future Geronimo.The second half of the book takes place in 1876 . Now wealthy and regarded as a hero Flashman is coerced by his wife into taking a tour of the United States . This will get Flashy mixed up with among others George Custer . Since Flashman seems to get in the middle of all sorts of historic battles you can be sure he 'll be at Little Big Horn . How he gets there involves some of his past sins coming to visit him in an unexpected way.As with the other books in the Flashman series this is another historical novel with a sense of humor however dark something rarely found in that particular genre . It is also very wellwritten offering a cynically alternative take on both historical events and historical figures besides Geronimo and Custer this novel also includes Ulysses Grant Crazy Horse and Wild Bill Hickock among others . If you 're new to this series this book might not be the best place to start but for existing fans this is another fun read . ",4
"The book brings the times alive . The height of the action is the Little Big Horn seen through the terrified but wily eyes of Flashman MacDonald Fraser 's strapping British cavalry officer who was thoroughly engulfed but yet again survived . The epilogue is MacDonald Fraser 's poignant visit to the scene today which is all silence and stolen markers . ",4
"Our intrepid hero Harry Flashman is back for volume seven of the Flashman Papers a narrative of the life and times of one of the most ne'erdowell wastrels to ever grace the pages of a published autobiography.The first five Flashman novels were presented in chronological order . This packet like its immediate predecessor acts to fill in a previous gap in the Flashman timeline . From a chronological standpoint the adventures of this novel immediately follow those contained in Flash For Freedom wherein we left Flashman in the port of New Orleans awaiting transport to England . Alas poor Harry is instead destined for adventures in the American West of 184950 . The story then skips over 25 years and picks up again with Flashman attending the wedding of his good friend Philip Sheridan in Chicago . From there our friend Flash hooks up with General George Custer for a leisurely ride through the Black Hills of Dakota and into Montana.As in the previous Flashman novels our Harry is revealed as the premier coward and opportunist of his era faults which he quite willingly admits and even boasts of . Much as a prior day Forrest Gump he has a way of finding himself among the most powerful and famous personages of his era as he takes part in the great events of the period in this case meeting a young Geronimo on the Santa Fe Trail traveling with Kit Carson and riding among the American cavalry at Little Big Horn.Aside from uproarious fun and games the Flashman series is set against historical events and actually serves as an educational experience . On to volume eight of the Flashman Papers . ",3
"I have read all the Flashman books and this is an excellent story . If you have read any of the others you will know what to expect and if you have not this is a good place to start . I would recommend you begin at the beginning simply so you will get all the back story but that is not necessary.Just pick it up and enjoy it for its simple lighthearted fun . That is something we do not get enough of these days . There is no grand lesson here although you will learn things you did not know before but the intent of the book is simply to entertain and you will be entertained.Do n't worry if it could have happened or did n't or if the time periods are correct to the year and month . Just enjoy Harry Paget Flashman at his best or would that be worst . ",4
"I normally do n't go for fiction much anymore but I 'll make an exception for this excellent tale . Flashman is like the Forrest Gump of the plains . He is kidnapped by or meets the most famous outlaws soldiers native americans and politicians of the mid 1800 's West even participates in Custer 's massacre . All carefully footnoted and fitted to the real history itself . Why this book has not been made into a movie I ca n't imagine although Little Big Man seems to have been an attempt at it . The books that the author references form the better part of my library at the moment and I still have a number of them left to read . Fascinating . ",4
"Partisans is one of those disappointing adventure novels that build up a nice head of steam before crashing into a wall.During World War II a Yugoslavian agent under apparent German command takes a team of compatriots deep into his native country where Italian German and their Cetnik allies watch each other as suspiciously as they do their Partisans foes . The agent Petersen has a message to deliver though what that message is and who he has to deliver it to is a mystery.What makes Partisans enjoyable is the leisurely way it begins with much circuitous banter and some dark doings on darkened city streets and aboard an Italian torpedo boat . You know Petersen ca n't be working for the Nazis but what about those with him ? Who can he trust ? Who can we trust ? One settles in expecting a variant of the commando tales MacLean famously presented in such books as The Guns Of Navarone and Where Eagles Dare though laced with a welcome sardonic edge courtesy of Petersen.Agreeing an attempted assassination against them was committed by amateurs Petersen adds But the effect of an amateur bullet can be just as permanent as a professional one.Or take his impression of an Italian officer he meets He 's reasonable personable smiling openfaced has a firm handshake and looks you straight in the eye anyone can tell at once that he 's a member of the criminal classes.As the novel goes on you begin to realize it is n't going anywhere that the banter is all you will get . The plot advances only because Petersen and his group keep getting captured by various forces who then leave them unharmed which Petersen explains is part of his mysterious plan . A rotund pal drinks alcohol by the quart while another keeps a strange surly silence . A couple of women along for the trip call Petersen a monster then break into tears over such things as having to ride a pony over a mountain.More annoyingly one never is able to work out what Petersen is up to until the end of the novel at which point he explains it all to you and his comrades in such a roundabout way none of it makes much sense.Maybe he was having a poke at the au currant thrillers of the time . When Partisans was published in 1983 MacLean was struggling with a form of novel he helped popularize but which had been picked up by more sophisticated writers like Frederick Forsyth and Ken Follett who jammed labyrinthine storylines into books twice as large as MacLean 's . Of course MacLean 's simpler stories could be quite wonderful too but here we are handed a plot so convoluted no one could understand it . Even the flap jacket for the original hardcover describes a story with little resemblance to what 's in the book.That 's a shame because Partisans has the makings of a good tale with interesting characters and a charged background of multiple conflicting loyalties running riot in an exotic locale . MacLean throws a lot of plates in the air and you wonder how he is going to get them all down . Then he surprises you by letting them crash to the floor . ",1
"For a novel about a very dirty ugly conflict in WWII this book is strangely woven with a humorous thread . It could have been so much more oh well . Not recommended . Read Circus or Guns . ",0
"You would n't think an action novel about Yugoslavia 's brutal World War II occupation could sound like a drawing room comedy but that 's exactly what this is.Nazis and Italians occupy while the Communist Partisans the Serb royalist Chetniks and the Croatian fascist Ustashe fight among each other jockeying for postwar position as they try to wipe each other out . The Allies wonder which resistance horse to back . Everyone 's loyalties are uncertain.Despite all this potential for action three enigmatic Serbs escorting a mysterious crew into Yugoslavia on a nebulous mission do little but talk and talk and talk . They fence around their trust of one another as they make their interminable way into the frozen mountains.The Yugoslavs come off way too tweedy for folks who should be smashing glasses into a fireplace or reciting fatalistic Slav poetry . Maclean pays endless attention to their meals and sleeping arrangements and it 's all so civilized . Does n't he know there 's a war on ? He tries to build tension over the two ladies ' regarding mission chief Peter Petersen as Not A Nice Man with the readers presumably wondering same . It 's all rather ludicrous . Petersen 's subtle inferences about the others come off sounding too much like Agatha Christie for a World War II commando leader.Maclean pays lip service to the war 's actual brutality . In his genteel war people are tied up and gagged . Clever threats break hardened operatives in minutes without torture . Action consists mostly of uh fisticuffs and hardly anyone gets hurt . Would that World War II had actually been like this but verisimilitude it ain't.Maclean does n't plot it badly ultimately addressing the complexity of this multisided war . He does n't however introduce it soon enough not until the last few chapters and even as it 's being resolved . Before that the book seems like a literary journey to nowhere . ",1
"The book is written like a second war James Bond . The Yugoslaw names are taken from ex Yugoslav Partisan leaders like Mose Pijade and the story disapoint me the most . But Iam Slovene and I like Partisan fight for freedom and Igave the book three star . ",2
"While not quite plumbing the depths of the awful 'Goodbye California ' or the boring 'Santorini ' it 's fair to say that 'Partisans ' is one of Maclean 's weakest books and yet another example of his latecareer decline . Despite returning to WW2 where some of his classic works were set Maclean just can not capture the magic this time around . Unlike his taut fastpaced early thrillers this a very loose lightweight book that goes nowhere . It 's the sort of book that 's instantly forgettable it 's easy enough to read but leaves no impression whatsoever once you 've finished it . Years on I still vividly remember the heartpounding climaxes to 'The Satan Bug ' or 'Fear Is The Key ' or 'Puppet On A Chain ' . But almost nothing sticks in my mind from 'Partisans ' apart from an interesting torture scene involving a lethal injection and the fact that everybody changes sides at least twice.All the usual latecareer Maclean flaws are here . The impossibly brave and capable hero Peter Petersen the heroines who are actually utterly clueless damsels in distress the clumsily handled noone is really who they seem plot twists . Despite being set in wartime Yugoslavia the book is very talky and slow moving with almost no action at all . In fact very little of interest happens at all throughout the book it 's mostly the characters trading oneliners and complaining about being left in the dark by Petersen . There 's certainly no sense of the bigger picture of the fate of Yugoslavia and the progress of the war itself . 'Partisans ' is not a bad book in the way 'Goodbye California ' was and it 's readable enough . But it 's nowhere near what Maclean was capable of and will be a huge disappointment to fans of his early work . Newcomers should stick to his 50 's and 60 's stuff and leave this one alone . ",1
"Alistair MacLean is my favorite novelist . Yes I am a Christian but he surpasses my favorite Christian novelists Frank Peretti and Randy Singer . I will say Singer has the potential of surpassing MacLean at present I 've only read one of his . But for an enjoyable reading that I feel will be of minimal offense to me nobody can beat MacLean even with his weaker material.When I read the blurb on the back of this novel I was very interested the novel did not resemble that blurb but seemed more like a run of the mill MacLean novel particularly one of his later stories.This story is one of those where he introduces you to a group of interesting characters and then you find out who they really are at the end . Where Eagles Dare and Breakheart Pass do an excellent job at this and even the novel immediately proceeding this one River Of Death does a better job . The wrap up of this one is disappointing though I like the closing better than some of MacLean's.This novel is like many of MacLean 's other and better novels is based during World War II . This one is unique in its focus on Yugoslavia . I found it interesting that MacLean had written Cold War novels where Communism is the bad guy but this one actually looks at Communist Tito as a hero.In reading the reviews of MacLean 's River Of Death there is a mention of MacLean 's battle with alcoholism which I never knew before . However in noticing how some of his protagonists drink a lot without any negative consequences such as the Professor in this novel I 'm not surprised.If you want to read MacLean at his best I would recommend Where Eagles Dare The Guns Of Navarone Breakheart Pass and Circus . However if you enjoy MacLean even in his frozen dinner years which is how Stephen King describes his latter novels in Danse Macrabe then you will enjoy this as well . ",3
"Alistair Maclean known most for Where Eagles Dare and The Guns of Navarone is one of the best writers in the WWII spy thriller genre . Partisans is lesser known but still very good . This book is set in Italy and the former Yugoslavia during WWII The story will likely be confusing to most people since the history and politics of the former Yugoslavia is unknown to most . Yugoslavia officially sided with the Axis powers but had a large rebel force known as partisans who fought against the Axis . There is also the dynamic of the ItalianGerman alliance which was strained especially towards the end of the war . All this background makes for much intrigue and suspense . This is an entertaining and fast moving novel if a little confusing . ",3
"This is the weakest book of his I have read and that is about thirty MacLean novels . I understand that he passed away prior to this book being published and that is was compiled posthumously . While admittedly not all of his books are great I do n't feel this is up to snuff with any of the others . Do n't make this your first MacLean book and unless you feel the desire to read every one of his books like I choose to take a pass on it . I am unwilling to touch any of the Alistair MacNeill books written using MacLeans notecards because I feel those are apt to be pretty weak too and no one ever seems to duplicate the originals . If you are going to give a couple of MacLean novels a try go for Where Eagles Dare Puppet on a Chain Bear Island & amp Ice Station Zebra . ",0
"Major Peter Petersen is sent to deliver a message in Alistair MacLean 's PARTISANS but suspicion is the vital element that insures survival in the deadly game of espionage during any war . The questions is who is being setup and for what reason but then who is connect to whom by what ties.MacLean delivers an excellent adventure where Petersen is never sure until the last chapter who he can trust and who has more than life at stake.A good read at any time.Nash Black author of QUALIFYING LAPS . ",3
"I wrote in recent reviews of Mankell and Leon mysteries that after reading Sherlock Holmes and Helen McInnes I had avoided mysteries altogether for many years too boring . I had forgotten about Alistair McLean . I did read a few of his stories and liked them but I did n't read the famous ones and have forgotten exactly which stories I had liked it was in the seventies at latest . Puppet on a Chain sounds familiar.I picked up the Norwegian translation Partisaner of Partisans cheaply in Trondheim in 1985 because I thought it might be easy but my vocabulary at that time was inadequate for a novel so I strained over the first 15 pages and then gave up . I read the first few pages again last night and was amazed that I had marked a few sentences in response to why the Scandinavian name Petersen the name of the hero is found in Jugoslavia Petersen responds to the German officer in Rome that that ca n't be regarded as unusual that there is e.g . a village in the Italian Alps where the rest of a Scottish regiment landed in the Middle Ages and where every second name starts with Mac . What 's funny is that I forgot that I had read this but in 11988 with my then German girlfriend we visited that village ! It 's named Gurro lies in Val Canobino above Cannobio on Lago Maggiorre . They have a Scottish museum and many of the men have red hair and faces . I did n't ask about surnames though although we returned to the village an extremely stately mountain village half in ruin in 1988 and hiked in the region in 1995 . Much more interesting is that this is a region where the old women still wear local costumes and use the kraxe a wooden backrack for transport in daily life . There is only one hotel in the entire valley which is not a valley at all but is more of a canyon . PS It 's not a good translation I still have trouble with it . ",2
"typical maclean novel filled with unique characters detailed plot and surprising twists and turns . deals with the conflict in yugoslavia during world war II . kept waiting to learn if actor sterling hayden a real life oss agent assigned to operations in this area would make an appearance . same gripping type of novel in vein of 'the guns of navarone . ' you become a participant in the story . ",4
"MacLean delivers another fun adventure in this 1983 yarn about a World War II espionage mission . Pete Peterson and his motley crew of maybeChetniks maybePartisans cross Italy and Yugoslavia to deliver a message and unmask a double agent . The characters are MacLean classics beautiful patrician women evil assassins stalwart companions and a glib and brilliant hero . The plot meanders through the confusion of Yugoslavia 's threeway civil war while under Italian and German occupation . A fun adventure a light read a real Alistair MacLean classic . ",3
"This book is all about guessing who the hero is . Is itCandidate Apro he 's a nice guy and he actually marries the heroinecon he actually marries the heroine early on he 's dead meat or a fruit fly see earlier VH reviews for the life expectancy thereofCandidate Bpro he 's a nice guy and he rescues the heroine from her villainous cousin when she 's youngcon he marries villainous cousin 's sister he 's a politicianCandidate Cpro he 's mysterious and Frenchcon I got nothingI enjoyed this story quite a bit . All the silk details were a bit much though not as bad as opals . Do n't skim though there 's a surprising occurrence early on that gets brushed off at the time but proves to be the crux of the mystery later . There are strange deaths strange accidents and mysterious men . Nicely intriguing ! The plot is well woven but meanders a bit too much in the middle especially with the politics . The story covers a long time period I think the heroine 's child is 11 or so by the end . The heroine is likable and strong . I really disliked the villainous cousin what trouble he caused for everyone ! I felt sad when A dies poor guy . I felt bad for B too I hope he finds love again . The heroine did seem to really love him and her rejection of him when he 's free again seems cold . Of course by then she 'd fallen in love with C. C was sexy but had less depth than B in my opinion . Of course he does n't even show up until what page 200 or something ? Still C investigates and finally solves the mystery . So I guess he earns the heroine . ",3
"I found this novel to be interesting as it takes the reader into the world of silk making and the dressmaker and her granddaughter Lenore who marries into the prestigious and wealthy family of the Sallonger who owns the silk . There one will find the secrets of violent and mysterious acts and the shadow that plagues of deceit that touches everyone involved in this world . The drawback of the novel is that there are many repeated paragraphs that tries to make inference to the importance of the scenes but if you can bypass this little annoyance than you will be caught up into the world of the Silk Vendetta . augie ",3
"Lenore lives in The Silk House with her grandmother at the top floor . They are n't servants but they are n't family . The owners of the Silk House are silk makers vying against a rival family in France . Lenore falls in love and marries one of the sons of the house but he commits suicide right after the marriage . Or did he ? His brother wants her too but she will have none of it . She opens a dressmaking shop in London hoping to escape the past but she soon learns that she can never escape the silk vendetta.This Victoria Holt book is n't as interesting as the others . There is also a part with a dog dying that bothers me I am very sensitive in regard to cruelty to animals . Also the badguy is really obvious . Still it is a good read and I would recommend it . ",3
"I love this book . I found this book on a boring summer night when i was 16 . I could not put it down . I finished it in less than a week and lost it soon after that . I often thought about buying another copy but couldnt even remember the title or the author . Im 25 now and just came across it by accident while searching on amazon . So happy . Great read . I highly recommend . Victoria holt is awesome . ",4
"this was the 9th victoia holt i read and i loved it ! It combines romance and suspence . ",4
"This is one of Victoria Holt 's best . It has a surprise ending as usual best of all it is not full of gruesome images . I am rereading the last half . ",4
"This one of the most beautifully written stories I have read I was hooked on this book really it is amazing . This is the book that started my obession . Lenore is such a beautiful character and Philip is the ideal husband . But it is a tradegy that he dies . It is n't until she unravels his murder she is able to settle down . ",4
"& # 8230by this author When I finish I will have read all she published under Victoria Holt . Loved reading her books for 45 years now & # 8230wish there were more . ",4
"I am an avid Victoria Holt fan but The Silk Vendetta was not my cup of tea at all . The dialogue was stilted there was too much of it to much redundancy and in many places unbelievable . There was no consistency about who was going to be the hero in this story for so much was going on and without giving a spoiler from the middle to the end Ms Holt took us all over the place . The daughter who started out young and sounded very much like a youngster her age and that was fine but when she got older Ms Holt forgot to make the dialogue and reactions of the daughter grow up with her age . From age 56 to age 12 she sounded the same . Once again difficult to believe . There were too many subjects too many characters who did n't play enough of a part to be a part of the story . The gothic elements of suspense were nothing like Ms Holt 's other books . For me a great disappointment.I kept watching and waiting for the ARC but did n't see that transpire either.No this was not my cup of teaor if it was it was lukewarm at most . ",1
"The Silk Vendetta is one of Victoria Holt 's best books . Mixing intrigue mystery romance and suspense she weaves a compelling tale round the heroine Lenore who grows up at The Silk House . The background of the silk trade is engrossing and Lenore 's character is compelling as she deals with the two men in her life Philip likeable and kindhearted and Charles as cruel as he is handsome . But as always with Victoria Holt all is not as it seems and Lenore has to go through a succession of adventures before finding true love . If you like your romances sevred up with plenty of adventure then read this book . If you 've read other Victoria Holt books then you 'll know what I mean and if you have n't you 're in for a treat . ",4
"While the Poirot and Parker Pyne stories are good the highlights of this collection are a couple of stories that do n't fit the mold of the typical murder mystery generally associated with Christie 's nameThe Harlequin Tea SetI ca n't say much about the plot without giving away the ending which has an almost surreal quality to it but this is a brilliant and beautifully crafted tale with a strong emphasis on visual description and color which both enables almost forces ! the reader to envision the scene in vivid detail and plays an important role in the storyandNext to a Dogit 's obvious from this heartbreaking but ultimately hopeful story of love loss and redemption that Christie was a pet lover who deeply felt the loss of her own beloved furry friends and she communicates that exquisitely as well as and perhaps better than any other writer ever has and though it 's a story focused on a dog it is perhaps her most human story.Worth the price for these two gems alone but the other stories nicely round out the set with the kind of fun intriguing mysteries one expects from Christie . ",3
"The tape played very well and I enjoy audio books when I am busy doing housework . It makes it less boring . Agatha Christie is my favorite author . ",4
"This is a collection of short stories including some featuring Hercule Poirot a Parker Pyne story and some Mr Satterthwaite and Harley Quinn stories as well as a couple which do n't feature any of the author 's regular detectives . I particularly enjoyed the Harley Quinn stories as they always have that extra dimension as well as being mysteries.I particularly enjoyed the last story in the collection ` Magnolia Blossom ' which caused me to reach for the tissues . It certainly shows human nature in the worst possible light . Apart from that one I also enjoyed ` The Harlequin Tea Set ' and ` The Love Detectives ' . This is an interesting collection and could be a good introduction to Agatha Christie 's writing for someone who has n't read anything by her before . ",3
"This is for competists who have listened to all the other Christie audiobooks and audio plays . You get a Parker Pyne a couple of Harley Quins one Poirot and other assorted nonseries stories . Please note that this collection is not read by HughCapt . Hastings Frazier like most other collections are . And the actor used is not as good as Frazier at least to my ear . I came here specifically that my library copy seems to cut out at the end of one story Next to a Dog . The end of the story is pretty obvious but I 'm quite sure that something is missing . I 'm surprised that no one else has mentioned it.If possible I would stick to the BBC Audiobook series they may have these same stories within their collections . ",2
"Agatha Christie is in my opinion one of the GREATEST mystery writers barnon . Her tales keep you at the edge and they are especially pleasing with the British readers that narrate the stories . Agatha is the BEST ! ! ! Pat Simmons ",4
"Buy nearly any of the other Christie audiobooks created within the past few years rather than spend your money on this one.It 's not nice to be harsh but I nearly could n't finish listening to this set because so few of the stories were compelling enough to even take my mind off the traffic during my commute . Although I like nearly all of Christie 's novels this collection of short stories seems to indicate that Christie really did n't understand short storywriting or was churning out stories without much heart for it or perhaps much good editing at least at the time.At the end of each story I sat there feeling cheatedas if the ending had been rushed to fit into a set number of pages . It 's more like reading one of those 2Minute Mysteries than the bit of nice warm chewy Agatha Christie brownie of a mystery I was hoping for.Christie normally excells at creating delightful either good or bad characters whose quirks and social interactions we anticipate and enjoy . Her normally keen sense of social wit is rather lackluster here . These short stories suffer greatly from her inability or lack of time to develop the characters and the social setting within so few pages.Also there probably is a following for this character but I find Harley Quinn stories simply silly and will never read them again . In a short story format there is simply no scope for a novelist who is n't trained to have the discipline to get us to suspend disbelief at the oohaah supernatural Mr. Quinn . I enjoy a good fantasy or what have you but these stories simply fail to build into anything and seem terribly impressed with themselves.If you 'd like to explore Christie 's little known nonstar characters to try something of hers you have n't read I enjoyed Ordeal by Innocence and Elephants Can Remember which features Ms. Oliver who represents Christie herself . ",1
"The wisdom offered to politicians and sociologists and to us all in this longwinded account of colonization is stultifyingly flat and commonplace . Every subject in this book is dealt with much more entertainingly and better written in a myriad of other books including scifi.Maybe it is our recently painfully increased acquaintance with Arab culture that makes this aspect of Red Mars so contrite and simplistic in retrospect but all the other themes are also overexplored in a dull and patronizing fashion that can not appeal to but the hardiest of Mars lovers . For all its many characters described in the blurb as 'varied and engaging ' there is but one type of human in the whole book a sort of idealized American character taken from its own history combined with socialist communist anarchist stereotypes with have nothing in common at all with real people.Finally the science in the book it is science fiction after all is often wrong basic badly described and boring . There is nothing to this aspect that has even remotely anything to do with actual colonization technologies . At best it is unimaginative and dull.The book is a political soap opera of the most basic kind in the bad disguise of a hardcore SF book . ",0
"I came to this book after years of putting it off . I was torn between reviews saying it 's an essential classic of science fiction and reviews saying it 's a dry overtechnical treatise.Well now I have read it and I can say that it is both of those things and more . The book is split up into sections told from the perspective of different characters charting the first 40 years or so of Mars ' colonisation . I was surprised at the variety between sections . Some are tightly focused on the psychology of the colonists on particularly engrossing section is from the perspective of someone who is barely holding onto sanity . Other sections however are a bit heavy on technical descriptions of construction or Martian geography . Political philosophy also gets woven through the chapters but unfortunately much of it is 'told ' to the reader through unrealistically long speeches . The characters who chose to actually live their radical philosophy spend most of the book in hiding.I found the more human psychological aspects of the book to be fascinating . The technical and philosophical part of the book were indeed pretty dry but easy to skim through if you get bored.But do n't let that put you off this book really is a classic of science fiction and well worth the effort . It 's probably a good thing that I waited until I was a bit older to read this I probably would n't have had the patience in my teens or uni years . But I 'm so glad that I finally picked it up and I 've just started to read the sequel . ",3
"Excellent books inspire readers to write excellent reviews . Red Mars however is so tedious that even writing a review about what is wrong with it feels a lot worse than Monday shaving.Where to start ? From the huge portion of the book around 10 to 15 % of it which reads like a tractor operation manual ? From the obnoxious and unpleasant characters with nothing to like about almost all of them ? From the magic elixir of youth discovered conveniently by a handful of Martian scientists ? From the overall feeling that colonizing Mars is something like a weekend trip to the beach ? I could go on for ages but it is pointless and I already feel the chore of writing this review heavy on me . If this is the best way Mars is colonized in literature I would be glad never to leave the Earth Luna system and read again and again the Heinleinian colonization with the Moon Is a Harsh Mistress.Still 2 stars for a twopage debate about the preservation of Mars where the writer rises to a level well above his potential . ",1
"Red Mars is like nothing I have read . It 's a story of the first hundred people to colonize Mars . The plot is a bit predictable but interesting nonetheless and a sort of mystery develops early on in the book . Set in a world described in excruciating detail I was awed by how scientifically accurate this book was making it very believable . I 'm normally not a fan of political struggles but Kim Stanley Robinson has made the political struggles of the Red Planet worth reading about and very intriguing . I would not call this a traditional sf work . This is beyond FICTION.it could easily be our future a someday history book . ",3
"This book is incredible something any science fiction fan should read . I actually choose this to read for a book report . I chose it because it looked like something I may enjoy reading or at least be able to do for school . I did not expect the level of joy I had reading this book . I will be doing my report and then buying the next two in the series . ",4
"'Red Mars ' is one of the best science fiction books I have ever read.As you probably guessed by the cover and name this book is about a group of astronauts and scientists who colonize mars . Kim Stanley Robinson talks about the selection process of the astronauts he delves into the hardware that took these astronauts to Mars . He talks about nearly every aspect of life on mars from the physiological and sociological ramifications to political and physical problems that could arise in such as situation . Robinson not only makes it all plausible he does it in a way that the story is not just facts and statistics this is a story of love politics engineering religion and psychology.Many here have said that this book is n't for people on the conservative right I disagree . BOTH liberals and conservatives could learn a thing or two from this book . I have read The Communist Manifesto the constitution many libertarian works.and 'Red Mars ' was THE first book I 've read that really challenged my political beliefs . Since reading this series I have thought things over more carefully . I am more understanding of nature and human nature . I am more open minded towards politics.If you are even remotely interested in this book I implore you to get it . You wo n't be disappointed . ",4
"I 'll make this as short as possible..like I wish the book would have been . This read was easily twice as long as it needed to be . I got halfway through and quit . It was so boring . I wanted as always a good story not a tedious dialog that goes on and on about every little detail involved in colonizing a planet . I ca n't believe this author is receiving accolades for this work . He can in no way be compared to any of the greats in the scifi field . ",0
"I guess that this book was not for me . I download books if they seem interesting and get good reviews . Well at least it was free because I thought it was incredibly boring . Hopefully future readers will enjoy it more . ",0
"A mustread if you 're a scifi fan . Ranks right up there with Heinlein and Clarke . Robinson 's level of detail and the research he must have done are incredible . ",4
"Undoubtedly one of Kim Stanley Robinson 's best works Red Mars is a masterpiece in every respect . Sweeping changes are occurring on Mars throughout the story but underneath it all Robinson is careful not to lose sight of the human condition.One thing that Robinson does so well in his novels is to tell gripping fullyrealized characterbased stories . Though many of his works fail to climax in a tense pageturning fashion readers still find themselves flipping page after page and falling deeper and deeper into the characters.Red Mars uses these characters in excellent fashion as we get into the minds of Maya Toitovna and John Boone the first man on Mars . We also see the seedier lives in the personas of Frank Chalmers and even a bit of Ann Clayborne Mars ' first Red . All of these characters have interesting intriguing stories that live through their personalities . Kim Stanley Robinson fleshes out the characters so well in fact it 's hard to believe they 're not real people . Red Mars feels like more of an historical recounting than a tale about the future colonization of Mars.So the question is would I recommend this book ? Not to just anyone . Robinson is one of those authors the reader has to appreciate . If not a dedicated bibliophile the reader may not enjoy Robinson 's work as often they are not terribly exciting books but rather intricate studies of the human mind and spirit and about our connection to the world we live in . They 're nearly philosophical in context and a thoughtful reader will find themselves reexamining their views and opinions about a great many things when reading Robinson 's work . It makes for great reading but not average excitement.So if you enjoy a fantastic book and like to be challenged into thinking new thoughts and most especially have never read Red Mars you must do so immediately . ",4
"Kim Stanly Robinson is an intellectual . I have a substantial vocabulary but never the less I need to resort to a dictionary from time to time . Red Mars was written in the 1990s but as the Rover photos demonstrate Robinson had real foresight . ",4
"This entire trilogy suffers from the same issue . The subject of terraforming Mars and the political issues surrounding that effort is interesting the characters however are uninteresting and often unlikeable . It feels like they are just vehicles for the scientific and political commentary but as compelling as that commentary might be it 's hard to read because I simply do n't care about the characters delivering it . ",1
"and I mean it . It is the second time I read the book since it was released it . The first time I could n't turn it down so gripping it was but then I did miss a lot . This time I used time and really it was worthwhile . I think that whoever like good science fiction and have some concern for life and what sustain it should read it . I am waiting to read the second book as I remember I liked even more but I do n't remember why . It will be fun to find out . ",4
"The characters are developed well their motivations well developed as the plot unfolds . The proposed colonization and terraforming technology are quite plausible.However I advise Robinson to read or reread the Horatio Hornblower novels . For much of this book I felt trapped in various characters ' internal dialog and sorely tempted to skip paragraphs and indeed whole pages.Alas I felt much the same about 2312 . ",2
"In light of the recent elections I thought I 'd write a review of Red Mars . Great science fiction not only offers insights into future technologies and KSR does this very well but it also offers insights into the human condition and our future possibilities as a species . The Mars series by Kim Stanley Robinson not only was a fabulous introduction to learning more about Mars in general a planet I knew little about aside from Ray Bradburytype speculative fiction but it also gave me a clearer understanding of the presentday politicaleconomic forces shaping the global economy and a vision of a utopian future in which mankind shapes its destiny not on the basis of weath and multinational corporations but in creating a society which truly values its members . Red Mars and the other books in the series challenge our notions about the way things are and what could be in the future . It also gives one insight into the controlling factor in the last election.I doubt there is any American who read this series who would not see parallels between the multinationals wrestling for control of the vast resources of Mars and American politics which increasingly are dominated by wealthy special interests . I will always be grateful to KSR for helping me visualize our future in a different manner . ",4
"Red Mars does have a plot several actually but the action meanders along in an almost dreamlike way . Robinson spends pages getting his characters from point a to point b with little forward movement of any storyline.On the other hand there is a major gap of years in the book 's plot and Robinson conveniently invents a reason for his suddenly much older characters to continue being vital . Granted such inventions are de rigeur in SciFi.Nevertheless the book is wellresearched and wellwritten making it a pleasure to read even if I 'm reading about driving through a canyon for the hundredth time . ",2
"The Mars trilogy by Kim Stanley Robinson is without a doubt a must for anyone who loves to read or write about this planet . Certainly it is a huge work from many points of view.This first book focuses on the first colonization of the planet imagined in the very near future in respect of our present while the book was written back in 1993 . Then it continues in a time span of several decades describing the beginning of a terraforming project.On the one hand we see the usual optimism of this kind of science fiction to imagine an event of titanic proportions in a relatively short time which will certainly be denied by the facts . Beyond that you can hardly call this book a novel . Sure there are characters and their stories linked with each other but from a narrative point of view it seems more like a series of episodes shown from different points of views giving us a choral narration in which there is n't a true protagonist if not Mars itself.The individual stories however appear to be just an excuse for the author 's attempt to immerse himself in other fields mostly scientific ones although he often tends to lead to sociology politics and even psychology . The result is a book that tends to look more like a speculative treaty than a true novel . The characters suffer about that thus ending up in the margins . Most of them are not making much to be loved . I admit that I had trouble to get fond to them . The only one I really liked is Frank maybe because I have found him the most human one with his virtues and especially with his flaws . Too bad he was then hit by the karma of some too politically correct American stories according to which if you do something reprehensible and at the end you have to pay somehow.The book is still for the most part interesting especially if you 're looking for an indepth pseudoscientific study . At the base of speculation there is a very accurate science the result of considerable research . Perhaps the worst problem of this book is to have wanted to exceed in this sense focusing too much on technical aspects at the expense of fiction.In some parts I got bored and I skipped many pages . I do not regret it . At one point in the part of the expedition narrated by the psychologist the author leaves for a tangent with a very boring and unnecessary psychological disquisition . When the scope was more purely scientific I read it with interest.One thing that jars is the desire to be obsessively accurate from a scientific perspective and then expand without limits into the speculative part arriving in my opinion to exceed.The finale ends in catastrophism an argument that I can not generally stand not only in the narrative leaving you with a bad taste in the mouth because the mood of the story starts with an optimistic base to arrive in a crescendo of drama to an excessive epilogue.Having to give an overall opinion it is undoubtedly a remarkable book but not an easy read due to its complexity and length . Certainly however it leaves you with something.Rita Carla Francesca Monticelli author ofRed Desert Point of No Return ",3
"This is a fun book and the Martian landscape and culture really strike the reader . I must say I enjoyed the beginning more than the end certainly it moved faster . The characters are interesting and not at all stereotypical and the plot is well constructed and compelling.That said the science in the book is awful hence the 2star rating . An SF novel ca n't be a quality novel if the science is n't up to the fiction . I am not talking about the space travel or terraforming aspects . I 'm talking about the economics . It irks me when 'science fiction ' has rigorously good science in the physical sense but terrible social science . Would we endorse wellwritten science fiction novels which assert that the sun revolves around the earth ? Of course not . Then why should we endorse a novel which claims that 'half the world is starving and always will ' a completely false claim given the available evidence ? Of course one might reply that it was not 'the novel ' which made such a claim but instead one of the characters yet it 's clear what the reader is intended to think hint when wondering what the author thinks see which character always gets the last word.Mr . Robinson plainly knows very little about population or natural resource economics but this does not stop his characters from expounding at length upon the alleged deficiencies of conventional economic theories . To be sure this is not an uncommon malady that is people 'criticizing ' economic theory when the 'critiques ' they have dreamed up were anticipated and answered by economists 100 years ago but that makes it no less irritating.I will probably read Green Mars nonetheless . There 's one born every minute ",1
"This is a spectacular bookhumans settle mars among them are revolutionaries visionaries scientists plain old capitalistsand as resources run out on earth the transnationals are doing everything they can to get minerals governments are doing everything the can to siphon their excess population . And the face of mars is utterly transformed . Raising fascinating questions about technology the environment the meaning of space exploration for this world and the politics of settling anotherit really is spectacular . ",4
"I will admit I usually would not write a review for a book if I do not finish it however my feelings for this book are exactly why I never finished it.I first bought the book around three or four years ago and tried to read it then . I got about halfway through before it became too boring . More recently I tried reading it again from the beginning and got less than halfway through.The main problem with Red Mars is that the author finds it necessary to put in an excruciatingly large amount of detail in everything . From describing procedures the astronauts use to descriptions of the Martian environment . A certain amount of detail is nice and helps create a vivid image but I am not an astronautintraining so all the excessive technical detail should have been avoided.In my own opinion pretty much every character in the book is annoying . I found some of them rather flat . They seem intent on talking politics read the author 's political beliefs or getting themselves into love triangles and wondering what went wrong . This does not help when the story shifts from one character to another when it is hard to like any of them.The book teeters on the edge of complete implausibility . I can believe the technology used to get the First Hundred to Mars but the fun ends there . First we are led to believe that space agencies would be so mindblowingly incompetent as to send a bunch of underqualified astronauts on a longterm mission to Mars . Later in the book and I do not think I am spoiling much here the colonists come up with a plan to use a bunch of windpowered heaters to increase the overall temperature of Mars . Nonsense.I had hoped to read the entire trilogy as an epic story about colonizing and terraforming Mars . Instead I never made it more than halfway through the first book . If you want some real science fiction go read some Clarke . This book did nothing for me . ",0
"This was the first and last Robinson book I read . Too many geographical details the characters were unsympathetic and the story line lacked creativity . I guess I should have read one of the other colored Mars first . However I thank Robinson from sparing me from the desire to read any more of them my time on Earth is limited . If I were you your time on Mars should be limited too . This was also the last science fiction genre that I read it made me realize that it 's not for me and for that I also thank the author . ",0
"This book strikes me as very fact centered and very realistic creation . The description of the panorama is very breathtaking . In spite of all this there were some inaccuracies that I observed in the facts and sometimes he forgets that people had to wear their pressure suits not too many times though . But well I will pass that . What had not been developed much until the very end almost where it became better was the individual characters . They certainly lack some human characters and thus they seem distant and hard to identify with . The historical political aspects were very good almost as good as the scientific facts . The characters the human touch of this needs to be worked better to get 5 stars . ",3
"Let me start by saying that I respect Mr. Robinson for tackling the huge task of describing the colonization of Mars in such exquisite detail and from so many different angles . We have n't discussed the book in my reading group yet but I think that the book raises a lot of good points for discussion i.e . would we have done X this way ? Would there be alternatives ? .My biggest complaint with the book was his rambling ad infinitum about the Martian land features . I honestly believe that the book could have been 150 pages shorter and equally enjoyable to me if he 'd have left out most of this . In fact it appeared to me that characters made often seemingly pointless treks around Mars just so the author would have a reason to describe each area . I think I may have been so put off simply because I have absolutely no interest in geology but the other people in my reading group felt pretty much the same way . This was my only real complaint with the book but it was such a complaint that I docked it two stars.Overall I 'm pretty sure I would n't have given the book a Nebula award but barring the complaint above I found it to be very thought provoking and I look forward to discussing it with my reading group . However I did not like the book well enough to read Green or Blue . ",2
"Well my entire class was assigned to read this book and I would n't say we hated it but it was pretty bad . It was essentially a soap opera on Mars . Ronbinson worded it well but it just did n't have enough content to be enjoyable to us anyway . I would suggest reading it if you are older than a junior in high school ",1
"Red Mars is a very detailed sprawling look at realistic Mars colonization . I did not find it to be a quick read . There were areas of this novel that really picked up the pace while other areas dragged some due to the expert detail . Although it 's uneven it 's still a fine book and recommended . In the end the big story is Tolkienesque but with a SF skin.Still reading this today I did n't feel that this came out in 1993 . Robinson has quite the talent for creating a realistic future . ",3
"Kim Stanley Robinson 's epic Mars Trilogy chronicles humanity 's colonisation of Mars beginning in the early 21st Century and extending over a period of some two centuries . The first book which covers a period of some forty years sees the initial settling of Mars by the First Hundred the welcome arrival of additional waves of colonists intent on scientific research and then the more challenging problems of the arrival of hundreds of thousands of economic migrants refugees and outcasts on a world that is not ready for them and the resulting tensions between the newcomers and oldtimers and between the authorities on Mars and Earth.The success of the trilogy as a whole is debatable but this first volume at least is a masterpiece . Robinson 's story rotates through a number of POV characters amongst the initial settlers the First Hundred and it rapidly becomes clear that most of them are somewhat unreliable narrators . Maya 's complaints in her own POV of her 'important problems ' being ignored by the base psychiatrist are given another perspective in her friend Nadia 's POV which reveals Maya is more interested in a trivial love triangle between herself and two Americans rather than in the colonisation of Mars whilst the psychiatrist Michel 's POV reveals that he is giving Maya colossal amounts of time and attention to the detriment of his own mental health which is unappreciated . Character is thus built up in layers from both internal viewpoints and external sources making these central characters very wellrealised although characters outside the central coterie can be a little on the thin side.However it is Mars itself which is the central figure of the book . Robinson brings a dead planet to vivid life emphasising the differences in terrain and character between the frozen northern polar icecap and the watercut channels in the depths of the Valles Marineris with the massive mountains of Tharsis towering high into the atmosphere and colonists eagerly staking claims to future beachfront properties in Hellas the lowest point on Mars and the first place to see the benefits of terraforming . The ideas of Mars as it is now as a pristine beautiful but harsh landscape and the habitable world it could be are sharply contrasted and the rights and wrongs of terraforming form a core argument of the novel . I get the impression that Robinson sides with the view that the planet should be left untouched but he is realistic enough to know this will not happen if Mars can be settled and exploited . Mars in this work becomes a success of SF worldbuilding to compete with Helliconia and Arrakis losing only a few points for actually existing.On the downside Robinson hits a few bad notes . Some of these are unavoidable consequences of the book being nearly twenty years old . Even in 1992 the notion that the Chinese would not play a major role in the financing and undertaking of a Mars colonisation mission only forty years hence was somewhat fanciful but today it is almost unthinkable . More notably the global recession has made the possibility of a manned mission to Mars let alone a fullscale colonisation effort by the 2020s somewhat dubious . Of course these are issues Robinson could not hope to predict in the early 1990s.Other problems are more notable . Robinson goes to some lengths to make the proterraforming and antiterraforming sides of the debate both understandable and intelligent but his political sympathies are much more onesided . The proMartian independence brigade have charismatic leaders and a grassroots movement of plucky honestmenagainstthemachine supporters to their name whilst the proEarthcontrol movement is led by a fundamentalist conservative Christian and resorts to weapons and massslaughter extremely easily . Robinson to his credit recognises this problem in later books and tries to repair the damage somewhat Phyllis presented extremely negatively in Red Mars is shown in a more sympathetic light in later volumes but there remains a feeling of political bias in this first volume . In addition it sometimes feels that Robinson really wants the reader to know about the years of research he put into the book with tangents and divergences which make the book feel like half a novel and half a factual science volume on how the possible colonisation of Mars might happen . For those fascinated by the reallife plans to terraform Mars like me this is n't an issue but for some it may be . It is also by far the biggest problem the sequels face.Nevertheless the sheer massive scope and complexity of Red Mars makes up for this . There is an overwhelming feeling running through this novel unlike almost any other hard SF novel ever published that this might actually happen . Maybe not as soon as 2027 maybe not with such a determined push towards colonisation and terraforming right from the off but one day barring the collapse of our civilisation we will go to Mars and many of the challenges and problems faced by the First Hundred in this book are issues that will need to be overcome to make that possibility a reality.Plus and this can not be undervalued the dry and more sedentary tone of the earlier parts of the book are made up for by the final 100 pages or so which contains one sequence which ranks amongst the most memorable and stunning moments of SF imagery achieved in the history of the genre to date . Robinson may have the image of being a bit of a laidback Californian optimist but he sets to blowing stuff up at the end of the book with a relish that makes even Greg Bear look unambitious.Red Mars is an aweinspiring feat of SF worldbuilding and a vital novel on the colonisation of our neighbouring world let down by a few moments of naivete and simplistic strawmanning of political points of view not to Robinson 's liking . Overcoming this the central characters are fascinating the sheer scope of the book is stunning and the climatic revolution sequence is dramatic and spectacular . ",4
"Finally got around to reading . Great novel . Ca n't wait to read the rest of the series . Yes it is detailed but worth it . Read it on Kindle for all the the definitions . ",3
"I am now on my third or fourth reading of Red Mars . It is enjoyable on so many levels I 'm afraid it takes that many readings to pick them all up . First of all it is a story of an alien worldstandard fare for science fiction readers . The research and extrapolation KSR put into his work boggles the mind . You really feel you 've seen the Martian North Pole Noctis Labyrinthus or Olympus Mons.Next Robinson creates a story of terraformingthe potential methods motives and pitfalls . It is easy to see this story becoming a potential blueprint for the next century 's explorers.Into this milieu Robinson creates some terrific charactersJohn Boone Frank Chalmers Maya Toitovna Nadia Cherneshevsky and the restall of them described in a thirdpersonlimited voice that gives the reader excellent insight into these people and how they perceive and are perceived by others.And lastly there is a political story . KSR 's characters split into two camps . There is the Red Mars group which seeks to keep Mars in its natural state with human beings living in domed habitats and leaving the surface as is . Appropriately enough this movement is led by a geologist Ann Clayborne . The Green Mars group centered around the biologist Hiroko Ai believes in terraforming and bringing life to Mars but life that does not rely on heavy industry . These seem like two reasonable oppositions and it takes a careful reading to realize KSR has fooled you . There is no conservative voice in this tale save Phyllis Boyle whom KSR portrays through the eyes of his characters as alternately stupid evil craven or relentlessly shamelessly greedy . He also sneers at her Christianity which he sees as part of her stupidity or incorrect world view . In any case given the rapacious greed and industrial evil of the conservative Earth the reader is left to choose between one form of matriarchal environmentalism or the other . It is his view and I just disagree with it . That said the political interaction between Earth and Mars is believeable as KSR describes it.Anyone interested in reading science fiction must read this book . It is too good not to read and enjoy . ",4
"I have just read the first two books of this trilogy . Magnificent and tiring the books have great vision but Robinson 's reach sometimes exceeds his grasp . The Mars series is a brilliant imagining of a future world that manages to weave future science with contemporary problems in an interesting ever thought provoking fashion . This compelling world is just about enough to offset Robinson 's problems with dialogue characters pacing and description . Despite the hamhandedness in all of the aforementioned the world is vivid enough and the personalities compelling enoughat least the original fully fleshed out ones not their often hastily introduced replacementsthat you 'll likely be enraptured for quite a while . And while Green Mars sometimes put the sag into saga there 's not a doubt that I will slog through the last book . ",3
"Overall this book is a fairly interesting look at what it might be like if humans colonized Mars complete with political squabbles and human failings . The best aspect of Robinson 's book is the incredible amount of realism he has introduced . It is as if he was actually part of the expedition working as the historian and personal chronicler . Some of the seemingly real events he describes include the multiyear sandstorms technology use to increase atmospheric temperature and biodomes . On the downside the pacing is a bit slow at points and the descriptions of some of the land forms and climate gets tiresome for someone who does not get extremely excited by such details . ",2
"Like many other reviewers I think this could have been an excellent novel if only the editor had done a better job . Excess verbiage needs trimming and gaps need filling . As it stands the book gets bogged down too much and too often.Entire parts could be distilled down to a chapter . Homesick in particular reads like the author forgot he was writing a novel and was just delivering his pet theories on psychology . Falling Into History consists largely of a planetwide tour by John Boone most of which seems to serve no other purpose than to illustrate that Mars is a planet and planets are big . Yah I knew that . Guns Under The Table could have been a lot shorter given that it ends up being that none of the details had any bearing on the plot the story or the history.Descriptions of the magnificent desolation of the martian surface were really moving at the beginning . Unfortunately the author apparently thinks the reader has a short attention span for he ca n't go two pages without reiterating this at times word for word . It gets to the point where one can recognize these from their leadin and know to skip a paragraph . Or three.I found many of the characters shallow and onedimensional caricatures not people as another reviewer put it . This was disappointing as a few seemed to have some depth . Boone charisma 's really came through once the author finished shipping him all over the planet for no real purpose . I could really sympathize with Nadia at times when the author was n't hammering us with her tendency to engineer everything . But too many of could be summed in a few words and then omitted from the prose . I do n't care what happens to these people.Another irritation is that after slogging through all 572 pages the end is very unfulfilling . In truth the book does n't end it just stops . I realize that real life often lacks neat endings but this is fiction and even history books manage to draw lines between events.All in all if I knew it was going to be like this I would n't have bothered . ",1
"The only reason that I did not enjoy this long read was it 's focus on the hardcore SciFi reader . I 'm not saying it 's a bad book just not for me . The author crams so much geologytheology psychiatrytopography and much more in the book that it all becomes overwhelming . He seems to remind us throughout the entire readwhich I could n't wait to endabout the same terrain over and over the color of the sky and the types of volcanoesmountainscraterscracks and more craters with the same explanation . To hardcore for me . A true fan of any book about the colonization of Mars you will love it . I could n't wait to leave the planet.For better books based on Mars I would suggest Robert Heinlein 's Red Planetsee my review or Ray Bradbury 's The Martian Chronicles . ",1
"An outstanding novel . One hundred people are selected to go and establish a colony on Mars and it looks at the physical intellectual and psychological testing that is undergone to get into that group.The main part of the book though is the travel and establishment of a base on Mars and the relationships and conflicts that develop particularly among the leaders of the group.Research discovers a longevity treatment and this has serious side effects on an Earth in crisis . Political factions develop on Mars on the best way to develop or not develop the planet and whether to take any crap from the growing influence of Earth corporate power . ",4
"The three books in Kim Stanley Robinson 's Mars Trilogy are my absolute alltimefavorites . He is truly gifted at writing about advanced science and technology and equally adept at creating real characters because he understands psychology . This is a rare talent to be scientifically knowledgable and a master at creating believable characters . The books are part action part scientific explanation like Michael Crichton of Jurassic Park fame and part character development.In Red Mars the first in the series Robinson paints a totally believable picture of what our future might be like as we get ready to explore and colonize Mars . Megacorporations earthly power struggles and the selection process for determining who might get to be the first to go to Mars are all very possible and Robinson crafts a story around these topics with ease.In the second book Green Mars Robinson portrays the struggle to get vegetation growing and to create a breathable atmosphere . He also describes more political struggles between those on Earth and those on Mars . This was probably my favorite of the three but mainly because I am more interested in the science that would be needed in this phase of colonization.In the third book Blue Mars the planet become more Earthlike . The atmosphere is more developed water travel becomes possible and more . I do n't want to give it all away ! The books can be kind of scholarly at times but I was so impressed with these books that I gave them to my teenage brother . He was so impressed with them that he gave them to one of his very best pals . And we all had a blast discussing them together . If there is a teenage male in your life or if you love scifi and have always wondered what it might be like to go to Mars then this trilogy is definitely for you . Very highly recommended ! ",4
"Robinson has a very specific style with these books Red Green and Blue Mars . I think Red is the best of the series but all of them have their strengths.What I liked most is that it was fairly like life . Yeah I know most people seem to want escapist junk but this is SF in the tradition of Heinlein 's and Asimov 's earlier work though with a unique style . He pays attention to real science and does n't postulate something outrageous that is n't ever going to happen . He makes very real characters and takes you skipping across the years.Maybe like Clarke this is something that authors can do as they get older and have more perspective.My comments are mostly with two things one of which was n't known when Robinson wrote Red Mars . The first is when he constantly talks about the fines micron sized particles that get into everything and on everything.The problem with fines like that is that they have a well documented respiratory effect . They cause diseases like black lung and silicovolcanoconiosis or tin miner 's disease or asbestosis . So this is an inconsistency in the story because fines that small get into the alveoli get attacked by white blood cells kill the white blood cells and the result is scarring and death . Based on the descriptions in the Red Mars book the fines would have killed everyone within 10 years or so.The second problem is one Robinson did n't know about that is still uncertain . Chromium has been detected on Mars ' surface in surprising quantities . So it 's part of the dust . The problem with that is that if as is quite likely much of it is in the hexavalent form of Chromium it will cause tumors in mammals very rapidly . Since the Mars settlers are described as living in a virtual bath of fines they would probably get large amounts of hexavalent chromium into their water absorb it through their mouth and saliva swallowing and things like that . The average time for them to develop tumors would be around 4 years for many within 1 year . This is the stuff that the movie Erin Brokavich was based on.So those details kept bothering me . Until a water cycle gets going to wash the fines out settle them into soil and dissolve the chromium so it can react I do n't think the story as it is told could possibly happen . The settlers would have to live hermetically sealed or much better so . Maybe genetically engineered people could handle it . ",3
"Stan Robinson does an outstanding job of tackling one of the most talked about and inspirational next steps in the human spaceflight program . About the only thing missing is Burt Rutan and his SpaceShipOne.Character development is realistic and very detailed . You feel yourself living the lives of these characters as they embark on an amazing journey that provides discoveries not just about Mars but about humankind itself.The technical aspects of the book are second to none . In this respect the Mars Trilogy would stand up to the most serious critics . It could be future history itself it 's that good.It is an outstanding book and Trilogy and comes with the highest recommendation . ",4
"Kim Stanley Robinson 's Mars trilogy of which Red Mars is the first is classic epic science fiction writing that is compelling and quite plausible . Do n't expect to get through it quickly as the whole series consists of nearly 2000 pages . Those who like their SF writing fast and action packed should look elsewhere . Robinson 's writing is literally bursting with ideas and his descriptions of the political developments among Martian colonists who as time goes by have less and less in commom with the Earth the left behind rings absolutely true . Warning read Red Mars only if you intend to complete the series for you 'll find yourself unable to avoid it . ",4
"The reviewers are rightthe amazon.com reviewers that is . After reading Gearald Jonas 's praise for this book in the NY Times Book Review I expected great things . This writer has ZERO narrative skills . Save your money . Terrible book ! ",0
"Very good could not stop once I started . Looking forward to the next book in the series . Many topics rolled into good story ",3
"What if Mars were colonized by Ralph Nader 's campaign managers ? Answering that uncompelling question is Kim Stanley Robinson in a bid for leftwing bragging rights among his neighbors in infamous Davis California his cultural template for a utopian Mars society . The novel 's only character development and dialogue involves a dozen or so main characters agonizing and bickering over hairsplitting differences in Green Party dogma . There 's no dimension of the characters of any personal motivation or romantic involvement that does n't serve as an addendum to ad nauseum political ramblings . Everyone bands together though to fight the real adversaries the bloated Earthbound corporations depicted as a caricature of pure evil in their insatiable quest to consume human dignity and the natural environment and bent on extending their insidious reach to corrupt the unsullied red planet . A hamfisted socioeconomic polemic dressed up as a novel which unfortunately does n't work well as either the repetitious clich & eacuted social critique is about at the intellectual level of a college freshman trying to show off to his parents on his first visit back home for Thanksgiving.Which is unfortunate because interspersed among the leaden characters and leftwing rhetoric is also a fascinating thoroughly researched look at the colonization and terraforming of Mars in the finest tradition of hard scifi . From landing through basebuilding prospecting resource collection exploration etc . we are treated to an insider 's peak at just how the first permanent crew on Mars would probably settle in and prepare the way for others to follow . Anyone interested in the science and engineering aspects of settling another planet will be spellbound by these passages.Even here though after borrowing extensively from what must have been an exhaustive review of the technical literature the author egregiously leaves only the skimpiest possible reference to the actual developers of these speculative technologies for settling and terraforming . A page of notes listing references or at least giving credit for specific bright ideas to their particular originators would have been more fair . I 've had to try to trace down individual references since reading the book to link the hastily mentioned names in the scant reference listing with their particular ideas and papers . This may not affect your ability to enjoy the book but then again I found it disappointing.Meanwhile about halfway through the novel the first ship of settlers are no longer alone on Mars as hordes of new ships start showing up at which point the only interesting material from the novel gets phased out in favor of more and more squawking about the same issues . and more and more a decent editor would have insisted he trim half the bulk away it still would have been more than enough to cover the same material . Anything incidental like how or why all these people are leaving Earth for Mars in the first place is ignored . Although characters start getting killed off at a respectable pace they remain content to spend all their time debating the fine points of surrendering private ownership of property to the collective community prohibiting profitmotivated economic activity and whatever else you 're likely to overhear at any Davisarea Starbucks . If you think you 'd find this an unacceptable substitute to realistic characters with compelling dialogue and an intriguing plot maybe we can petition Robinson 's editor to pass his stack of references to Orson Scott Card for the next sequel . ",1
"Kim Stanley Robinson has done his homework . He knows all about atompsheric partial pressures and soil ecology . He knows how to convey information via the written word competently . He knows not the first thing about people or fiction writing though and that 's unfortunate . The Mars trilogy is a single boring shapeless mass of words . The characters are laughably twodimensional symbols avatars for ideas or concepts they 're not people . If they were you would n't want to know them.And they talk . They talk and talk and talk . They argue and argue . They talk about terraforming they talk about politics they talk about each other in an endless cycle of debates meetings conventions committees assemblies conclaves and arguments . Robinson has invented a kind of Model UN he has worked to draw charts of manufactured political factions boring each other to death in interminable meetings . It is not interesting . It was not worthwhile to expend this effort towards such a boring end.What is most depressing is not the boring storyline the endless loops of the same argument the stupid and contemptible behaviour of many of the characters but Robinson 's contempt for the English language . English to him is just a tool a means of expressing information . If he could write fiction in equations he would . He ends sentences with etc . etc . and tells us about his characters ' lavatorial habits . He shows not a shred of joy of affinity for his medium . There is no structure Red Mars Green Mars and Blue Mars are all the same book . That this deathless humorless prose is used to trace out a saga of such incomprehensible tedium is unforgiveable . Only the bland competence of the whole endeavor rescues it from complete failure and even then Robinson has missed things the SI unit of pressure is the Pascal not the Bar and that Kelvins do n't come in degrees . ",1
"An immense novel dense with both science fiction and humanity . This is the story of future Mars.I am especially fond of the range of narrative that Robinson entertains . He shifts easily and smoothly from the most intimate moments of an individual experience inner turmoil heartache despair to incredibly vast timeframes and overarching themes the evolution of cultural pockets physical global changes political shifts across two planets . It is commendable that these themes and the central characters remain distinguishable across such a vast scale of time and place.That said I did find myself glossing over some of the more elaborate details of the engineering efforts and ecological speculation ahem hello Sax but I found it very powerful and intriguing when it was comprehendible . I blame my own lack of familiarity with the subjects for not being more clearly understood but even when lost in the details I was still able to grasp the intentions so kudos again to Robinson for his written skill.The story begins simply enough . One hundred prized scientists are selected to be the first colonists on Mars . They arrive with pure intentions to study the planet and determine its viability as a resource for the overpopulated and underresourced Earth.Foreshadowing the unavoidable the 100 scientists break into distinctly divided factions even before reaching the Martian surface . In time these individuals and groups become voices of greater conflict acting as overt leaders or inadvertent representatives for the two entangled planets and their varied populations.Reds demand environmental protection of Mars in its foundstate to allow for geological study the search for Martian life so on . Meanwhile capitalistic ventures and terraforming efforts proceed regardless of unified decisions . Inevitable conflicts arise as the needs and desires of the majority overrule the opinion of the few.Moment by moment the climate shifts power politics culture and the fate of Mars.I 'll leave the plot summary at that . One final note only to mention that this is one part of a trilogy but you can walk away at the end of Red Mars fully satiated . Or you can jump into Green Mars and continue the story . Your choice . ",3
"In honor of the Mars Rover Landing I decided to read this book . I think seeing the rover pictures really helped me understand the landscapes and visualize the descriptions from the author.In one word this book was Epic . Long complex and full of details . The first part of the book captured my attention . I loved hearing about the colonization of Mars and the first 100 . I got a bit lost in the middle of the book when it focused on political intrigue and the varying options of how Mars should be settled and what the future should look like . It lost the wonder of the first section . However the conclusion was fantastic . The planet wide war was fascinating and the final conclusion kept me on the edge of my seat . I want to see the ice dome of the hidden colony . ",3
"Three years ago or so I purchased Red Mars . This week I finally finished forcing my way through Blue Mars the last in the trilogy.The value of this trilogy is the comprehensive presentation of the social and technological dimensions of terraforming Mars over the course of about 200 years.If you are at all interested in Mars you have to read these books but if like me you find them to be slowgoing at times somewhat agonizingly trite at others and you would rather just absorb the terraforming ideas I highly recommend that you skim skim skim . I would n't usually recommend this approach to a book as you need to give the author every chance.There are some wonderfully created moments in characterization but mostly the characters are formulaic and play off against each other mathematically . One is a meddling experimenter another worships unadulterated rock and opposes any terraforming another seeks to build a religion around Mars another is charismatic secular not too bright and a born leader etc.But the terraforming ideas are usually very detailed and presented in a convincing manner embedded in a believable future history . Well worth the effort . ",2
"Red Mars started off just dandy with a variety of characters a bit too onedimensional but hey struggling with how to best colonize Mars . No one was a 'good ' guy or a 'bad ' guy just good hard scifi mixed with honest ideological differences.Halfway through the book however it all changed . All of a sudden Transnational corporations are launching nukes after buying out the United Nations . Christian fundamentalists try to dominate the colonies . A few hundred scientists on Mars discover wildly optimistic technologies while the billions of people on Earth decend into chaos primarily because of those darn evil transnationals.What started out as a balanced and interesting book jumped clear off the left end . I 'll only read the sequels because I want to read all the Hugo and Nebula award winners not because I have any hope for the rest of the series . ",1
"A lot of description but not much action . Whenever something big and interesting happens it is described in a paragraph or alluded to . Detailed descriptions of the surrounding thoughts and reflections on events are dragged on over pages . If you like fast paced sci fi ' skip this one . ",2
"This is the ultimate hardscience fiction novel surpassing even its Golden Age models . No aliens no paranormal no tricks to get around the speed of light no cheap fight scenes . Robinson takes an idea colonizing Mars and examines it from every possible angle geology technology politics economics religion you name it . He also examines it from multiple human points of view by having each chapter some of them novellasize dominated by a different character a Machiavelian schemer Chalmers an egotistical politican Maya a hardheaded engineer Nadia an adventurous explorer Boone etc.Of course all this takes up a lot of space and that obviously puts off some readers . It 's a matter of taste.My main beef is the treatment of the two religion characters Phyllis Boyle and Hiroko Ai . Boyle seems to be a dumping ground for whatever Robinson dislikes most at the moment first she 's ecumenical then she 's a fundamentalist then she 's a hypocrite . In the spaceelevator planning meeting Boone complains that she was acting as if she was in church whatever that means . Fanatical ? Entranced ? Hypocritical ? Bored ? People do a lot of things in church . Robinson needs to make his point of view clearer in places like this instead of assuming that the readers share all his opinions.Meanwhile we 're supposed to take Hiroko seriously as the founder of a new religion but to me it sounds like so much hocus pocus . Using Latin and Greek does n't make one profound Viriditas just means Greenness and Areophany means Revelation of Mars so what ? Likewise the distribution of moral responsibility . The metanationals and of course Boyle get blamed for dumping too many immigrants on Mars yet the inventors of the longevity treatment which ALSO creates overpopulation on Mars do n't get blamed at all . Why ? I do n't know ask Robinson . But there 's enough fascinating material in the book to compensate for this . ",3
"This novel deserves the praises it gets simply for its scope and ultrarealistic future world on Mars . The author really ponders the political implications of settling Mars from longstanding ethnic and religous conflicts to ecological and enviornmental activism . The technical aspects of the story make it downright feasible to go to Mars right now . And you 'll be swept by the scale and number of charactersbut there are a few problems.As a fan of what I call socialogical scifi Card Heinlein Dick Robinson really shines in that catagory . But the science got a little tedious for me . Also the relationships between characters was a little Cinemaxlike but the different perspectives throughout the story helped balance it out . As for it being longwinded I found that this is a good book to put down at the end of one section then pick it up later . This way the story did n't get too monotonous and I would find myself asking what the characters were going to do next . Takes some time but this is a novel that deserves its acclaim . ",2
"Robinson 's vivid imagery of the cold inhospitable Martian landscape presents a delightful picture of our neighboring planet for us to enjoy . She skillfully uses scientific terminology correctly without being obtrusive at a level on par with Asimov a rare find among science fiction . However after a hundred pages of barren landscapes deep canyons and socially dysfunctional scientists the book wearies and left me wanting adventure and character development . A disappointing read . ",2
"Red Mars was an interesting book . My feelings about the book were like a roller coaster at first I really liked it then it started to drag a bit then it was exciting then slow then finishing on a high note.This is in large part not an actionpacked book . It 's more about the colonization of Mars and how in the future the infrastructure and politics of it all might be.The story centers around the first 100 that travel to Mars . You 'll be reading about their long journey towards Mars for the first good portion of the book then the early colonization period up until when more and more immigrants begin to live on Mars . Then the revolution hits.Specifically talking about the Kindle version it seemed like the transition to digital text was a rushed one . I found numerous grammar mistakes and even a misspelling or two.Will I be reading the next two books in this saga ? I 'm not so sure . At some points during the book I was definitely thinking Yep picking up Green Mars as soon as I 'm done . Others I was thinking I do n't think I 'll be reading Green and Blue Mars..This all being said all in all Red Mars was enjoyable . The characters are memorable and Robinson really does go into great detail into the landscape of Mars . While there are some spots that seem to lull Red Mars is a fantastic read . ",3
"Robinson imbues the tradition of humanist peoplecentered science fiction with new realism and life in this threevolume Mars trilogy . A true modern Renaissance man the author combines sophisticated ideas about political science economics culture religion and technology with lush fluid prose and believable fascinatingly flawed characters . The work is epic weighty and emotionally affecting not a light read but often one that is very difficult to put down . Though the setting is Martian the issues involved are strongly Terran and highly relevant to life in the twentyfirst century.Despite all this high praise however I personally found the first half of _Red Mars_ difficult to get through . This first volume introduces a large cast of characters and focuses heavily on speculative technology and the landscape of the virgin planet Mars . Though the exploration of potential developments in technology is wellgrounded in current research and science as a reader whose interest lay more with the characters and the culture I felt that the pace dragged during Nadia 's a concreteminded engineer first long chapter . Having finally slogged through it however I found myself unexpectedly swept away by the great variety of voices with which Robinson gives his narrative life . In fact the diversity of these voices may be the novels ' greatest strength each character has his or her own vocabulary and metaphorical paradigm with which they approach the world . Not only does this device emphasize Robinson 's themes of the nature of memory and the subjectivity of human experience but almost any type of reader will find a character or two that they especially like even if they fail to identify with others.These books are sophisticated wellwritten and realistic and have the potential to enthrall any thoughtful reader not just the loyal sciencefiction crowd . Though I consider _Green Mars_ the best and most focused volume of the series _Red Mars_ is a powerful read and may well have special appeal for those with a love of the concrete . ",3
"Red Mars at its very core is not for the weak minded . Each book is a huge undertaking fraught with slowlypaced character development minutely detailed landscapes that read like geological poetry and political discussions and longwinded speeches that would make any man reconsider his abstinence from drink.I 've read the book two times . The first time I think I was a bit too young to follow exactly what was going on . The second time I was able to appreciate the science much more.Red Mars is a dark book . In it you will find a murder that haunts the whole trilogy . There is jealousy greed backstabbing and friendships gained and lost . Kim Stanley Robinson throws his characters into a variety of situations that are both unpleasant exploding tents that shelter cities resulting in massive decompression and aweinspiring . One of my favorite little moments is when everyone has gathered on Olympus to witness the first attempt at thickening the atmosphere . The whole description of the meteor exploding takes up less than two pages . But I 'll never forget the last sentence . See page 377 of paperback.Robinson writes with a dry pen which fits the arid atmospheres of the red planet . It 's a style that takes some getting used to especially since this was my first book of his.Why read Red Mars ? Besides having attained a somewhat cultstatus among space aficionados Red Mars is the story of what could very well happen in the nottoofar future . 100 people are sent to Mars . Earth almost disowns them then struggles to recontrol them . And by the time you reach the third book Blue Mars what people are alive turn around and help Earth which has its own rather intriguing problems.While I would consider the trilogy an epic the first book is n't as intimate as Green Mars . There seems to be a distance to the characters perhaps overshadowed by all the political thoughtprocesses regarding terraforming an entire planet . ",3
"Kim Stanley Robinson 's RED MARS rightly deserved the 1993 Nebula Award and its place among the classics of science fiction . A epic tale covering over three decades of Mankind 's first years on Mars this book is truly aweinspiring.Robinson 's prose is clear and flowing . He writes very much the way a storyteller should . His characters are haunting and their dysfunctions go to show that although humanity can move beyond Earth it can not move beyond itself.In any large group of people there will be at least a few unusual types . Characters like Hiroko the religious innovator Arkady the leftist revolutionary and Ann Clayborne the ecological conservative all represent realistic viewpoints that will confront each other when Mars is colonized . Critiques of the book from reviewers below about the book 's focus on leftism miss the point humanity is always made up of dissenting viewpoints . And in this case the trying conditions on Mars and the lack of resources make socialism and communism worth examining even though they can not have worked on Earth.But Mars really is the main character of this book even if it plays its role quietly . Robinson 's description of the Red Planet is so precise and well done that one can perfectly visualize each scene 's environs . That Robinson was able to capture Mars so well in this book is especially stunning because it predates the 1996 Sojourner mission which is where much of the newer surface data comes from . Robinson obviously had to painstaking research the earlier missions and the latest findings only prove the conclusions he beautifully portrays.Meticulous science passionate characters and an sweepingly epic tale that moves the reader across time . RED MARS is one of my favourite novels ' Its wonderful sequels GREEN MARS and BLUE MARS also deserve a look . ",4
"The Earth has been fully mapped . No matter for Kim Stanley Robinson has invented a new universe a universe for daydreamers and adventurers alike a civilization of words born on that crimson neighbor floating in the night sky . Robinson may one day be known as the father of integratedhumanity fiction he is at least at the vanguard of twentyfirst century science fiction.Red Mars begins on colonized Mars in the middle of the twentyfirst century . Under the pressurized tent city of Nicosia Frank Chalmers one of the original mission leads sits in a state of stressful anticipation . He is planning something diabolical to him it 's only politics . A festival of migrated humanity swirls about him Arabs Swiss Americans Russians united in celebration . Then as minutes pass the crowd starts to quiet news spreads . Fear and dread pass from person to person like a virus and everyone scrambles . In the next several panicfilled moments we are introduced to the primary leaders of this new Martian civilization one of whom now lies dead.We now step back to an earlier date December 2026 during the voyage from Earth to Mars . Maya Toitovna official leader of the Russian contingent is one of the one hundred men and women primarily Russian and American scientists who have embarked on this 300day journey to the barren red world . As Mars draws closer preparations are made assignments handed out and the political discussions ensue . Some will land on Phobos one of two natural Martian satellites others will begin construction of the first town . The lines of power are being drawn . But for now everyone is excited about the endeavor in front of them a new world so much potential the beginning of history and so much to build ! Ideals conflict but there 's enough planet and enough adventure for everyone.We learn much about Maya too . A fierce temper to match her fierce beauty a woman who could impale you with a look a woman not afraid to let the knives show when she thought a discussion was becoming irrational . She is a definite leader and she contributes to every aspect of the endeavor . But she is anxious . She lays her sexual fingerprint on both American mission commanders John Boone and Frank Chalmers sometimes one of them occupies her moods . She is in control of everything everything except her psychology . The confinement and the personality conflicts push against her . Demons are forming in the shadows of dreams.Robinson not only introduces us to Maya John Frank and five or six other nearprimary characters he places their challenge in our mind blending science politics and psychology with the extant cultures onboard . His vision is readily digestible and we are hooked . The ship lands on Mars and we turn to page 92.Nadia Cherneshevsky has plans for this red world . So she gets to work . Very quickly she became the colony 's chief troubleshooter the universal solvent as John had called her . As well as the colony 's primary architect . She loves this enterprise more than any she 's ever experienced she works by herself and with others . There was something so fluid about tired muscles at the end of a day 's construction work . Her reputation grows as her ability shines . Mutual professional respect a great maker of friendships . And so nice to talk about nothing but business . Nadia lives through the arms of her machines fueled by the world that will be . A compulsion a life with a goal how could you tell the difference ? We are actually present as the first city evolves fostered by this engineering Mother Ares . And we are still only 13 through this story ! Red Mars is divided into 8 parts each lived through a different primary character . We vicariously experience the colonization and expansion of Mars through Frank Maya Nadia and mission commander John Boone as well as Michel Duval the psychiatrist and one member who did n't request this post and Ann Clayborne an irascible scientist who turns redenvironmentalist . This forms within the reader an intense intimacy and understanding of each person 's psychological makeup . When we discover the character of the pioneer killed in Part 1 we comprehend the profound loss to the group entire.But Red Mars is n't tragedy it 's sheer reality . Robinson writes the best science sciencefiction of any major author out there . Arthur C. Clarke himself wrote of Red Mars A staggering book the best novel on the colonization of Mars that has ever been written It should be required reading for the colonists of the next century . Robinson 's scientific research is impeccable as is his awesome understanding of world cultures . The reader becomes a citizen of the world by first becoming a citizen of Mars.The men and women of Red Mars overcome much in this volume the planet 's forces internal factions the politics of citybuilding and immigration from Earth and the joy is in the details . It was a world of acts and words had no more influence on acts than the sound of a waterfall has on the flow of the stream . This book spans decades of acts and actions individual and collective . By the end of the book Mars has undergone largescale terraformation introduction of biological agents and mass emigration from Earth . The planet 's potential has been noticed and exploited in both positive and negative manner by religious groups transnational corporations and Earth nationstates . The undercurrent of revolution is strong in this still colonial wilderness and threatens to explode at any moment . The subconscious parallels made to America in this book are utterly fascinating.This is challenging fiction written by the man who would probably be elected mission commander if the shuttle left for the red planet tomorrow . Robinson has so much to teach and his work spans humanity like few authors before him fully integrating technology friendship war politics government sexuality medicine terraforming psychology environment and science . This book would be a wise choice for a college humanities curriculum . ",3
"Hands down the best mostbelievable science fiction book I 've read . The author undertook a project of grandiose scope and executed it beautifully . Throughout the book he displayed detailed knowledge of Mars and managed to be pretty solid on all the sciences as far as I could gauge . This is nothing short of an exploration in fiction of human colonization of Mars What would it mean to be human on a different planet and what kind of society would develop there ? The book features a cast of many but is primarily focused on the first hundred colonists . Honestly I found very few of them to be realistic characters . There was something about their descriptions and actions that rang hollow to me yet I was still emotionally affected by what happened to them . In terms of pacing there are long periods of negotiation separation ruminations on the human condition and description of Mars landscape . There are also periods of drama and high excitement with events occurring globally in a matter of days.This is not a perfect book by any means . But it is an exciting book and so believable that in the many reading breaks I took I found myself thinking the colonization of Mars was a reality and had already happened . ",4
"Am a big SiFi fan . I just could n't get into this one . The pacing is slow and uneven . The beginning is confusing and I could n't get beyond it . ",1
"This book is obviously the first of a series and if it is read as such with the intent of reading the rest it is worth the effort . The science aspect of the science fiction was fascinating to me but as mentioned by some previous reviewers the plot moved along slowly and there were too many characters I did n't care about . It was worth the effort to get to Green Mars however so I 'll recommend it for that purpose . ",2
"I am a diehard science fiction fan and this trilogy is what I usually like plausible science fully developed characters . However the pace is not just slow it barely moves at all and the plot gets lost along the way . This is the third time I have tried to read it and I still could n't finish too boring . There are long long monologs on the science and tensions in relationships that keep you hoping for some fireworks that in many cases never materialize.These are the most boring personalities that I have seen in fiction in a long time . The story never really engages you . Spend your time reading something else . ",1
"Not lord of the rings good or 1st time you read Foundation good but very very good . Lots of detail in the science background to convince ",4
"A dense slow moving plot about the initial human colonization of the planet Mars . This book is precise highly detailed plausible and exciting for the possibilities it seems to bring to reality . A lot of wellsketched characters are to be found here and everything about this novel is rich in detail . This is the first volume in a trilogy and I suspect it is destined to be a classic in its genre . ",3
"Kim Stanley Robinson sure likes to show off . He goes on and on and on about the finer points of geology or physics or the wording of the Antarctic treaty . Good for him . It does n't make for easy reading and is not necessary for the plot . I was constantly frustrated by how he would name drop concepts like 'IGY ' International Geophysical Year as if he is so clever . Big deal.I think he must have studied undergrad geology as he loves to show off about that but he sure has some strange concepts on drilling they 'cap ' a well by blowing it up ? Hmm.I also thought it ludicrous that they get all the way to Mars and then go 'now what are we going to do ? ' . No prior decision to terraform or not not even any plans as to who does what when they get there as evidenced by the squabble amongst the colonists when deciding who would go prospecting and who would stay behind . As if . Oh yeah and they got hold of all this dynamite just so they can fill Phobos or was it Deimos full of it in case the baddies take it over . Oh and only two people knew about it.I really tried to like this book but I was constantly irritated by how clever Kim wanted to look . Probably would n't be such a bad story otherwise . ",2
"When I read a book there should be characters that I can relate to and care about . The immaturity of the characters gave the book an 8th gradesoapopera feel . There should be a plot that excites . Not with this book . It started out good with a murder and landing but it quickly descended into scientific minutae . I 'm not that interested in Mars dust or lunar cycles . I gave up and did n't finish this book . ",0
"The red planet comes to life in this brilliantly conceived and stunninglyexecuted novel from Kim Stanley Robinson . The story opens with a brutalmurder that takes place amidst the buzz of the annual festival . From therewe go on an extended flashback that describes how the original 100 settlersa sampling of the world 's brightest if not necessarily most stable mindsfirst colonized Mars . Summarizing their training we get to know many ofthe personalities intimately on the long voyage out and as the initialsettlement is established . Like Faulkner Robinson changes the point ofview with each section to give a variety of viewpoints on what was done andwhy allowing the reader to decide who is right and who is wrong . Returningto the present we see the fruits of their labors several domed citiesthousands of residents a working space elevator based on the Arthur C.Clarke design and a radical genetic treatment that will vastly alter whatit means to be human . But there are dangers present as well and theresulting catastrophe makes for an unforgettable climax to a masterfullytold story.There 's a lot to love about this book the painstakingly detaileddescriptions of the Martian landscape the attendant environmental concernsthe even more pressing psychosocial problems the mysteries of the stowawayand the lost colony and the assassination all work together to form a Marsthat is more alive than any other . The powerful personalities at play inthis story and their failure to come to terms with the greater issues atstake set this book apart from everything else in the field . A simplyoverwhelming experience that does n't let up through 500 pages this reviewerread it in less than a week it was so gripping . Some day man may reallytry to conquer the planets but for today Red Mars is the next best thingto being there . ",4
"Robinson 's Mars series is one of those rare SF novels and yes despite being 3 books long it forms a single novel that breaks the bounds of the genre and can hold its own in the general arena . In other words one does not have to be a sciencefiction fan to enjoy it . It explores the human condition and the universe as well and the relationship of the two through the eyes of some of the most beautifully developed characters to be found in all of literature . It is both cosmic and very very human in its scope.While I greatly enjoy SF Robinson sets the bar higher for a genre that is often too comfortable in its niche . He looks at where we are going and points to a bright futureone that is possible to achieve if we have the heart to try . ",4
"What can I say you get what you pay for . Free edition that allowed me to kill some time while waiting or relaxing . ",2
"Robinson 's Red Mars follows the stories of 100 men and women as they train for travel to and inhabit Mars . Each chapter in the novel is told from the distinct point of view of one of several major characters . Oddly Robinson 's technique fails to reveal anything really interesting about any of these people . When American space hero John Boone is murdered in the first chapter I expected to eventually find out why . Is that alot to hope for ? Other events ensue Mars changes more major characters die to me at least these characters never seemed all that alive in the first placeWhile Red Mars is certainly vast in scope and largely interesting from a scientific standpoint the overall story suffers from underdeveloped characters an overemphasis on Martian landscape and no cohesive plot . And maybe that 's Robinson 's plan the major character in the novel is Mars itself not the folks who live there ",2
"A very good technical book on the colonisation of Mars . However the author though very good at telling the tale lacks something . The characters are interesting but there is nothing compleling about them . The best characters have serious problems regarding their longevity ! Though seriously flawed on the 'ripping yarn ' front a book that must be read by anyone interested in the story of man and Mars . ",2
"I now have a new obsession reading the complete Mars trilogy . His story is REAL . I find myself dreaming about scenarios he has created in my mind 's eye . ",4
"Kim Stanley Robinson does a masterful job of realizing a diverse array of characters not the least of which is the planet itself . I found Ann and Frank exasperating John and Nadia at times exhilirating and something of a disappointment Sax and Hiroko equally inscrutable and Maya making me wish someone would just slap her . I am astonished that anyone can keep track of so many personnae and keep their voices distinct.Equally I am astonished by Robinson 's command of geology meteorology thermodynamics and even economics . The details read well and ring true . For years I wondered why no one had covered this sort of project in detail terraformation colonization expansion . Most writers seem satisfied to take these things as read . Robinson shows what a great literary work a little delving okay a whole lot of delving can produce.On the down side the details occasionally get in his way . In particular I found three details more than a little discomfiting.First in the personna of Michel Robinson outlines his personal psychometry of personalities . In doing so he provides both an oversimplification of human character and an unwelcome glimpse at Robinson 's methodology for building characters . Like sausagemaking and legislation perhaps this process would have been better left unexamined.Second I think the abundance of water in the substrate of Robinson 's Mars is more than a tad optimistic . I realize that having to bring in water ice from the asteroid belt and Saturn 's rings would have slowed the development quite a bit but considering what a wealth of story Robinson typically finds in the details I think this obstacle would have made for even more excellent writing opportunities.Third in a move that appears nothing more than a technique to allow character continuity Robinson introduces the deus ex machina of a revolutionary new genetic longevity treatment . With no foreshadowing or sideplot leading to it the main characters suddenly have a chance to live for a thousand years . My how convenient . This device left he second guessing the author 's motives through the rest of the series . I love the books but I do n't think this was a necessary addition . As the principal plotline of this first book readily demonstrates key characters can die without compromising the story . ",3
"One of the best ! The author is clearly a sophisticated and created person with a great grasp of the science that space exploration requires . I learned from every page of this book . The characters are full and vibrant eventually becoming part of your family also . I enjoyed this book . ",4
"As the cover blurb on the 1993 edition by Arthur C. Clarke has it It should be required reading for the colonists of the next century . Well here we are in that century and polls show and pols say there 's not enough interest in going to Mars to bother.The novel is still worth the trip . It 's light on the tech and sci and heavy on the human relationships among the First Hundred colonists of Americans and Russians . Their oneway vehicle to Mars in 2026 still time for that was nicely practical a cluster of rotating toruses made of interconnected fuel tanks from shuttle stacks taken into orbit rather than discarded over the ocean by both the American shuttle retiring next year and the old Soviet one which only flew a few times.So that 's impossible but the story still makes daytoday life on Mars imaginable . It makes me want to put on my walker and helmet and go for a lope in the low g guided by a personal AI on my wrist even if the Internet is still confined to preWeb bulletin boards . When Robinson does describe the tech he does it well . A favorite is the building and use of a space elevator between Pavonis Mons and a captured asteroid . Thirtystory elevator cars make the journey up and down in five days . Once out of the Mars gravity well it 's much simpler and cheaper to board a rocket for earth or arrive on one and take an elevator down to the planet.All in all a believable and at times fun read . No wonder it still sells well . ",4
"I like reading the scifi of it but the personal dramas do n't have much traction . Ultimately the main problem is why would we do this ? No matter how horrible the earth becomes it will always be superior to Mars . It just makes no sense to colonize a totally dead planet . If we had such technology I suppose we would be better off colonizing our deserts . ",2
"This book is based on an excellent idea that is mostly followed through on . However it 's difficult to like any of the characters . Their mental stability social standings and interactions and sex lives are studied tediously over and over . Without some of the nonsense this could have been a thoroughly enjoyable book of half the length and I would not have had to skip pages and pages to finish it . By the way the skipping of long detailed explanations of individual views of the society did not cause a rift in the story . ",2
"The first 200 pages swept me away How the first 100 get to Mars and the beginning of their new life . Later on it 's all about politics terraforming and endless repetitive description of Mars geography . Some of the ideas eg Space Elevator are cool some out of place long livety drugs . I wo n't be reading GREEN MARS after this ! ",2
"The central character of this book is Mars . Humans come into the picture the more they interact with Mars but a lot of the book is descriptions of Martian traits the atmosphere the rocks geography etc . As one can imagine not much happens . The action takes time to build up . Gradually this book opens up into a plot line taken up in the superior Green Mars . Mars and it 's alien untouched nature is a counterpoint to mankind 's messing about . The point of view taken by Robinson of a planet wide perspective is ambitious but he contains it within his writing though there is alot of this and as I 've said it can be tedious . Still he 's factual genuinely interested in his subject scientific and plausible . Oddly there is a visionary streak in the book with some of the developments the author foresees for mankind 's future but I 'll let each reader be the judge of this reality . All in all a reasonably good read with a slow overlong easily read opening section about half the boo ! k. Did he have a trilogy in mind when writing ? I 'd be interested to know the truth of this . Good reading ! ",2
"The Great Escarpment was strange country cut by northsouth canyon systems marred by old craters overrun by lava flows broken into hummocks and karsts and mesas and ridges and all of them on a steep slope so that on top of any rock or prominence one could see far down to the north 408.The above quote is to give you a real taste of Red Mars . A very large percentage of the novel is devoted to landscape descriptions like this or the science background to the geologicalterraforming events . Perhaps you 're looking into Red Mars for the same reason I chose to give it a readit won some prestigious awards . Having just finished the book I can say that it won those awards on the strength of the large amounts of research that obviously went into its creation.While I applaud those efforts as well it is also possible that you 're like me in that you 're seeking a good story with an exciting plot and welldrawn sympathetic characters . In those respects Red Mars is quite a disappointment . The characters are fairly flat and save for the ones that die they essentially are the same from beginning to end . Further none are particularly endearing by the end I did not care much what happened to them or who succeeded or who failed . The plot begins promisingly enough but once past the first couple hundred pages it begins to meander off neither building tension nor resolving anything.Part of the problems lie in the fact that the author wants his story to be epic . Thus he tells the story over several decades . The problem with this approach is that it distances us from the characters and the plot . There is no sense of immediacy . Also it underlines the unchanging nature of the characterssurely someone could develop a new insight over thirty years ? Further the pacing is horrendous punctuated as it is by all of the landscape details as noted above . The truth is that Mars does not have a particularly interesting landscape being mostly rock and sand . The author tries his darndest to make it interesting describing it at length and he occasionally succeeds but it just becomes frustrating after about page 300 . As a parting slap he makes the last 40 pages or so just about nothing but landscape description sort of a final exam I suppose . It is alienating and loses whatever interest the events in the story generate.Lastly to discuss is the philosophy of the piece . I got the impression throughout that the author is presenting two extreme sides of an issue terraformingradical environmentalism Ann and radical meddling sciencehumanism Saxand saying that there must be some sort of compromise we can manage . The only real villain is capitalism Phyllistransnational corporations otherwise the author wants to be the voice of moderation . Sadly the author displays very little real sympathy for any of the viewpoints presented and no understanding for those who would genuinely disagree with what he believes to be moderation a strange form of socialism . His arguments will only seem right to you if you agree with him beforehand . The tone of the writing is clinical . Its prognosis for humanity bleak.In all I 'm certain this book has an audience . After all it has several glowing reviews here and did win those awards for some good reason no doubt . It represents a mountain of research and I am sure painstaking work . Perhaps you are a part of its audience . I am not . The things I look for in a novel include exciting plots engaging pacing and welldrawn sympathetic characters who grow and change over the course of the story . This novel fails in those respects . There are two sequels but my journey ends here . ",1
"Clearly I was unhappy with this book since I 'm only giving it 1 star so let me start with the one thing good I can say about this . The author does very good prose and character development . The problem with this book is essentially one of focus . For example the first remotely exciting thing to happen is an assassination . However rather than actually writing about the assassination one chapter ends with John Doe giving a rousing political speech and the next chapter begins with In the two weeks since John Doe 's assassination . . . Similarly at one point a war breaks out but the actual war is barely written about instead we are told of the exploits of someone running around fixing what she can while the war takes place elsewhere.This book begins with the first 100 permanent Mars settlers on a ship on their way to Mars about 30 years in the future which is why it is science fiction . However we are then told in excruciating detail about the political debates between crew and how junior high dating practices are common place on board . I toughed it out through this whole book in the hope it would get better but it did n't and it commits one of the major sins of the genre Rather then setting out to write a good book the author sets out to write a trilogy and so this book ends a cliff hanger although cliff hanger is relative term . This book avoids anything resembling action or intrigue so here cliff hanger means just when I could believe the story was getting to an interesting part it ends.So in short this book avoids action intrigue and adventure in favor of fictional politics including legal debates . If you want to learn more about the legal status of antartica and the author thinks it will relate to Mars then you should read this book . I wish I would have been warned away so I would n't have wasted my time . As it is I certainly will not be reading the next two books in this series . ",0
"If Leo Tolstoy was alive and writing science fiction this is the kind of book he would write . More than just an adventure in space this novel presents complex imperfect characters wrestling with questions of philosphy politics morality and conflicting personal ambitions against the backdrop of setteling a new world . The scope of the story the level of detail the number of characters and the ever shifting focus adds up to a War And Peace in the 21st century.This is not an easy book or a quick read . It requires attention and a willingness to let the author unfold the story in his own way . But it is a richly rewarding experience . While I liked it more than the following two books in the series I think the entire trilogy represents a monumental achievement . As a shear feat of imagination based on the known possibilities it is like no other science fiction that I have read . Those readers that fault Robinson for not writing something like Young Christian Republicans Go to Mars are overlooking the obvious that a fresh start will necessarily mean a lot of conflict social political and economic until some compromise between conflicting priorities can be established . Robinson does not offer any easy solutions to these problems and the socialistic elements that are introduced into the Martian system have little to do with old terran forms of central planning and control.This is a thoughtful book full of action . Much of the action is mundane people moving from place to place or building things . Yet it is always fascinating because the trips are through unfamiliar landscapes and the building is constrained by the hostile atmosphere and limited gravity . Reading these books is almost like a physical experience . I even found myself dreaming the landscape.Like War and Peace I suspect this is a book I will have to revisit in order to discover what I missed the first time . It 's worth it . ",4
"The description of the building and tearing down of the space elevator truly made this book and indeed the whole series stand way way out from all of the other spacebased trilogies . ",4
"A work of vast scope and moving detail both this title and the series for which it is the first installment . Nominally an adventure story about the colinization of Mars bet you did n't see that coming it is ultimetly about ideas and the people who must wrestle with them in the real world . Touching on scientific political and philosophical issues and the points at which they intersect Stanley uses Mars as a backdrop to discuss the human condition and the nature of human society . Stanley 's prose brilliantly portrays the stark claustrophobic enviroment that living on Mars would bring . I can not find anything negative to say about this work except that at times it may seem a little dry and rambling but it is so overflowing with new ideas and fresh perspeciteves that it well rewards that effert that it demands to complete . A must read . ",4
"Red Mars is a classic story of world building in the most literal sense it is the first volume in Robinson 's tale of Martian terraforming and the political and scientific implications of human colonization . It is genuinely important as it takes the possibility of human travel into space as a real thing and not a fantastic bit of fiction . But the very realism of the story makes for a slow albeit rewarding read Robinson spends significant time on the details and his grasp of the minutae is overwhelming at times . Nevertheless the characters he creates larger than life pioneers who echo the explorers of an earlier age pull the story back when it threatens to become turgid . Profoundly worthwhile for anyone who cares about the actual future of humanity and whether space travel will ever really happen . ",4
"Mars fans will love this book . I have to admit that when I first read it I found it difficult to follow all of the characters . It was Mars itself that kept me going because I loved being there with them . My second read cleared most of that up for me . I have managed to get through Blue Mars once but I have not been able to find the energy to go on to Green.The raw red planet is what appealed to me and still appeals to me . I love visiting it through this novel . ",4
"The books discussions of teraphorming and the Martian world is really well done . The characters are not particularly interesting and not really believable . That said a good read . On to the next one . ",3
"Due to the hype I boughtstupid stupid stupid ! all three of the books in this trilogy . I did finish the book although I am not sure how I did it . Here 's the storyline Describe the landscape for 20 pages describe in INTRICATE DETAIL what all the little widgets and gadgets that the colonists brought with them are talk about the beautiful scenery some more have sex some more technical stuff make a failing attempt to develop the characters have sex again etc . The back of the book talks about how the last hundred pages go at the speed of light . Sorry but I did n't find the ending memorable at all . Then there 's this hardtovisualize part where they have an LONG elevator or something attached to one of Mars ' moons . I felt like I was reading Pecos Bill and how he would lasso a tornado with his rope only this time he 's doing to a moon . Highly overrated . See that bright red dot outside your window ? I suggest you take your copy of Red Mars and throw it out the window in an attempt to knock the red planet out of the sky . No aliens either . This book makes A Princess of Mars look good . ",0
"This book was wonderful . Some reviews complained about the detailed descriptions of Mars but I loved that . I felt like I was there . This book tells the story of the first hundred colonists to go to Mars and the story of Mars itself . It is hard Science fiction with a little bit of space opera thrown in for flavor . I intend to finish the trilogy . ",4
"Kim Stanley Robinson 's Mars Trilogy has gotten mixed reviews . When I first read it during the early 1990s I loved it . However rereading it I can understand the criticisms . The book at least the first part does an excellent job at portraying a believable mission to colonize Mars . Even 20 years later Robinson 's science seems plausible . He explains the Martian landscape and process of terraforming with meticulous detail . If you want to get a sense of what a mission to colonize Mars might look like read this book.Where the book falls apart is in the politics and characterization . Most of the characters are pretty twodimensional . They work to the extent that they represent archetypes of humanity the pioneer the politician etc . However the dialogue is sometimes cringeworthy . Some of the characters seem more like characters in a teen drama than professional scientists for a more realistic depiction of scientists that also manages to humanize them check out Weir 's The Martian . Most of the members of the expedition go rogue or behave in ways that would have gotten them kicked out of any real spaceflight program . I do n't mind some quirks in the characters and there are ways in which the quirks take the story in interesting directions especially the Green Mars movement in later books but anybody looking for realistic characters will be disappointed.Moreover Robinson 's portrayal of Martian politics is a bit confusing and frankly not nearly as believable as his science . In political scenes KSR tends to write characters as good guys or bad guys . Boone is the lovable charismatic hero the Earth planetary government is filled with bureaucratic suits . The American representative on Mars Frank Chalmers is clouded by some interesting ambiguity but even he falls into stereotypes about bureaucrats yelling shut up all the time . Overall I think the book would have been stronger if it had kept its focus on the scientific mission not the politics.Rereading the book 20 years later I would give it 3.75 stars . Red Mars is still the best novel about a mission to Mars . It 's much more engrossing and plausible than anything else out there . But it suffers from tangents into politics and unrealistic characterization . ",3
"This is an epic story told on a very small scale . Looking at the cover and hearing someone describe the events that take place throughout the novel you would probably get the impression that the book concentrates on the settlement and terraforming of Mars and in a way it does . But the story is told in successive sections not so much through the eyes of various people but through an examination of how being on Mars has changed them . Ultimately what I remember about this book is the depressions and joys friendships and loves that are brought to life so vividly against the backdrop of Mars not the hard scifi details that are scattered so expertly throughout.Among the many forces that buffet the characters only some are technological . Many of them are engaged throughout the entire book in the question of what it may mean to be Martian how life may or should be different than the one they knew back on earth . Some fall in love with the planet and want to keep it pristine but in the end more feel the need for a revolutionary break with the past . In many ways Robinson has succeeded taking the Heinlein trope of a libertarian revolution on a new planet and combining it with the unflinching reality of the powers that would oppose such a movement both national and corporate to create something that feels as if it is out of a history book . As events unfold they become ever more chaotic motivated by illdefined ideas and competing ideologies which are seized upon as justifications for a crowd doing what it has already decided to do . Many of the characters and events would be at home in a story of Russia 's communist revolution.All of this takes place against the backdrop of a Mars undergoing terraforming and Robinson seems to have a detailed grasp of everything from Martian tectonics to extreme climate microbiology and ecoeconomics . It is always dangerous to write from the point of view of a character who is an expert in something if you do n't know the subject at least as well as they should you can come off sounding trite and false . But even though every character in this book is an expert often in more than one field they are astronauts after all there is never even a glimmer of uncertainty or b.s . in the work that Robinson describes.This book is a rare achievement and it deserves every award it has won . I ca n't wait to read the remaining two in the series . ",4
"If you love hard science fiction you will love this book . The detailing of the science involved with the first settlement on Mars is incredible . If you are interested in how human society works this is also a very good read . I heartly recommend . ",4
"Kim Stanley Robinson undoubtedly has mastered the idea of Martian colonization its effects on Earth and the events following the first landing . In a somewhat lengthy and sometimes dry novel the author clearly and accurately portrays what might hold in our future.Readers are drawn in with a murder in the beginning of Red Mars and quickly zips back to the launch of the Ares the space vessel holding the First Hundred . Robinson 's detailed narrative focuses on these characters to examine the issues of colonizing a new planet . Subjects such as how Terraforming should be conducted what social rules are in order and other scientific facts are mentioned in Red Mars . Robinson addresses the social economic and scientific problems humanity will face when interplanetary colonization occurs.Although somewhat slow and boring if one can pull through Red Mars he or she will be satisfied . The scientific babble Robinson mentions requires no great outside knowledge but some would be helpful for better comprehension . Yet the imaginative events that occur in Red Mars are superb ! Space elevators fullyfunctional colonies etc . Red Mars is a wondefully written sciencefiction per se that anyone who is interested in what might come of the future in space should read . ",2
"This whole series RED GREEN and BLUE fully explores Mars like we wish we could but ca n't afford.Character development as is usual with Kim Stanley Robinson is great as are the various scientific aspects of the books you actually learn some actual science .Lots of adventure and excitement throughout make it an enjoyable read from start to finish . I 've read this series twice now IT 'S THAT GOOD . ",4
"Buckle in for a great read on space exploration and how to begin the process of terraforming a neighboring planet . Brilliant story and compelling action will keep you turning pages ",4
"I bought Red Mars because it won the Nebula Award . I suspect it got the award for its detailed description of Mars and its terraforming not for its quality as a novel per se.1 . Unity Poor . Many scenes and dialogues in the book serve no purpose . For example an entire chapter contains the musings of a psychologist about a personality theory that simply does not fit into the narrative . The character is barely heard from before the chapter and barely heard from after.2 . Narration Poor . The book switches narrators frequently one is from one character 's point of view the other from another 's . This makes everything disjointed and ununified . Worse the thoughts and feelings of each are strangely similar . One gets all of the detriment without any of the benefit of this musical chairs narration.3 . Plot structure Poor . There is snappy opening chapter with most the rest of the book as a flashback but the rest has barely any structure . Sometimes the author is merely digressing into Martian geography . The climax towards the end is an excruciatingly long description of a flood . I thought it would never end . When it did the novel was over . It was disappointingly anticlimactic.4 . Plausibility Poor . The story starts in 2026 with no account of why Earth has suddenly decided to inundate Mars with thousands of colonists and gigantic robots . I had to force myself to believe it was starting in 2126 . The immense expense of such an operation in 2026 is completely unbelievable . 100 permanent colonists followed a few years later by 1000 ? ! Within 3040 years there are a million people on Mars and a space elevator . Outrageous . Worse there is little to no political structure to the planet there is only anarchy . Earth is willing to invest the majority of its GDP in a faroff planet but is indifferent about governing the people there ? 5 . Scientific accuracy suspicious . The author speaks of degrees Kelvin . There are no degrees in the Kelvin scale only in Centigrade and Fahrenheit . I learned this in high school chemistry which StanleyRobinson apparently never had.6 . Dependencia economics a joke . The highly educated scientists that were the first colonists preach pure dependencia economics . They say that rich countries the North stripped the poor countries the South of everything worthwhile they had and continue to enslave them by trade . Big companies are too powerful and can manipulate governments . They highjack the economy to exploit everyone but themselves . Rank neoMarxism and laughable . StanleyRobinson has never had a course in economics I 'd bet.7 . Length Poor 700 pp.. I lost interest halfway through and finished just to be done with it . Some passages I had to skim . ",0
"Ah nice to fine a SF book with plot now and then . Robinson deals with the colonization of Mars and the expectations of this colonization both of the people that are there and people of earth . I 'll leave it there as to what happens do n't want to give away too much . He is very good at his charactizations you really get to know about 8 10 characters very well almost where you can predict what they 're going to do or say . He also does descriptions very well of the planet the work that they do the people there etc . The story is excellent but it 's not a heavy SF book in terms of science the only thing that he talks about at any detail is the lighter gravity which is not a bad thing . A lot of SF books get bogged in the S and forget about the F this one does n't have that problem . There 's only a few issues about this book one and I got to say this is probably my problem is that 's it 's long like Tolkien long a lot of trivial happenings again good for character development but The other problem I had was the ending I hate it when books just kind of stop with no resolution . This one just leaves you right there saying where 's the end ? Still worth reading though . ",3
"I 'm writing this review about the entire Mars Trilogy Red Mars Green Mars Blue Mars . I ca n't possibly praise it enough . This epic concerns nothing less than the exploration and settlement of another world . The characters are believable so much so that the reader starts to think of them as real people the setting has been meticulously researched with a comprehensiveness somewhat reminiscent of Michener and the science is realistic even though as the author himself admits the terraformation of Mars is somewhat faster than would probably be the case in real life . But all authors are allowed some literary license.The reader is caught up as the story moves through early exploration of the Red Planet early settlement and later political turmoil culminating in fullscale revolution . And the story does n't just concern Mars . Earth is undergoing its own upheavals . But throughout Robinson maintains a feeling of invincible optimism though nowhere does he fail to acknowledge the severe problems facing the human race . Without giving away the ending I will say that bold new possiblities for human settlement of space are realized.This trilogy will appeal not only to scifi fans but to a much larger readership . Anyone who wants to enjoy a realistic portrayal of the next stage of human colonization should read this great epic . You wo n't forget it . ",4
"While the science discussed in Red Mars is interesting in and of itself the author goes on and on about it instead of sprinkling it throughout the text . The result reads something more like a nonfiction description of how to get to Mars settle there design machinery for it etc . but does n't present a compelling story . A compelling story is set up in Part I Festival Night which is all of 23 pages but then Part II The Voyage Out rears its ugly boring head.Part II introduces various characters on their way to Mars and not one of them seems especially intelligent nor highly regarded by his or her peers . One guy a Russian goes around spouting philosophy and calling people names like idiot . In fact he would have fit right in with those immature misfits relighting the sun in the movie Sunshine . After about 80 pages of going nowhere I opted to pass on this version of Mars . I 'll also be giving the Green and Blue versions a miss . ",1
"Probably the most boring scifi book . A lot of politics very dull and boring descriptions about Mars ecology . Many text books are more interesting reading than this book.The plot is boring . Characters are dull annoying and uninteresting . There is no great character development here folks . Did I mention that the book is extremely boring . Do n't waste your time with it unless you are stuck in an airport with nothing else to read actually just go to sleep and have some rest instead of reading this book . ",0
"This is a very good novel in the same league as Queen of Angels of Greg Bear . I think that this one is one of the best hard SF novels of the first half of the 90 ` s . Certainly is much better than Moving Mars by Greg Bear December 15 1994 . I say this even though I really like Moving Mars.The pace of the novel is very good the characters are well drawn the level of research is astounding . YOu can actually follow the action on a Mars map and will need to in order to understand most of the novel . In that aspect it feels like reading Tolkiens Lord of the Rings you have to had a good knowledge of the land because it gets to be another character in the story . Look for a good map of mars on the internet there are plenty of good ones from NASA ",4
"I know I should only do one star or five star reviews because those are the one that get read but this book is really right between . So much so that I do n't even know if I will read the next in the series or not . Science of Mars ecology and stuff like space elevator is interesting and pretty solid which science on stuff like immortality treatments is just plain silly and puts everything else in doubt . Economics and psychology are really really stupid . Characters are pretty dull individually but as a group keep you reading . No real protagonists here . ",2
"The first of installment of Kim Stanley Robinson 's Mars trilogy . A grand and epic story of the first hundred human colonists on Mars . This book is packed with hard scifi grand exploration adventure and fascinating characters . One of the most detailed and well written books on Mars I have ever read . ",4
"This book scratched an itch I 've had for a long time for a technical wellimagined and logically fleshed out in short hard science fiction story . I learned a lot of cool things about the real world by reading this book . I did n't even know piezoelectricity existed before . Some of the hypothesized bits about the nature of Mars are very cool as well . I loved it all.The story is not nearly as strong as the science . Occasionally it 's weird occasionally it drags . However there are also times when it shines very much on its own . Uneven would be the word for it I suppose . Taken together and provided you are reading this for some real science fiction ! I 'd give the package four stars and will definitely be reading the next book as well . ",3
"I am currently halfway through my second excursion into this book . I currently feel that it is very much worth it to read it twice although it was excellent the first time . Many of the reviews have made the points that I want to make but I just want to emphasize them . First this is not a scifi thrill ride . It is almost a dramadocumentary . I do n't want to make it sound boring though . I was always involved with the reading and almost constantly in awe of the excellent characters and vivid descriptions of everything . There is never really a central plot . The book is divided up into chapters each one from a different person 's viewpoint . This is very effective . You will get to know many of the realistic and likable characters in depth . It is really unlike any book I 've ever read in this aspect . Also the book does n't just utilize the physical sciences . It really shows how important the social sciences will be in the future . Although initially surprised by the politics and psychology in the book I felt like I grew and learned a lot from the challenging questions it presents . It takes a lot of patience to enjoy Red Mars but it is worth it . I felt the reward of reading a nonfiction science book while still enjoying it as fiction . So if you are a patient and attentive reader you will probably be more successful in realizing the excellence of this book . I recommend it to all who are willing to step up to the challenge . ",4
"This is an iconic science fiction novel three novels actually harkening back to the era of hardnosed scifi writing based on a sound knowledge of science engineering and ecology . It reminds us of the high quality of science fiction literature before the current wave of fantasy and popcorn space operas took over . The novel starts with a realistic vision of early Mars settlements extrapolating on existing settlements in Antarctica I coincidentally saw Herzog 's film on the Antarctica Encounters at the End of the World and immediately saw the resemblance between McMurdo station and Mars settlements in the book . The novel proceeds with the likely evolution of these early Martian settlements with different groups holding different philosophies on development . The purists preferred to maintain the pristine Martian landscape as much as possible at the opposite end were those who wanted to terraform Mars to make it close to Earthlike . Stirring the pot were the transnational mining companies who did not care about the Martian environment at all . Ultimately these groups were unable to coexist and years of Martian developments were destroyed in a final apocalyptic surge of mindless violence . The ideological and intellectual arguments of these different groups are brought out in great detail and provide the dramatic thrust of the novels . The book is at its best when it describes the engineering and ecological problems and how they were solved . In contrast discussions of alternate economic systems were crude and lacked a good understanding of how a Martian economy might need to develop . Likewise the characters were interesting as mouthpieces of their ideological positions and lacked psychological grounding . A side story about a romantic menageatrois was simply irritating . But these flaws are endemic to all of science fiction literature and that Robinson shares with greats such as Asimov and Clarke . In the end the strengths of this novel easily outweigh its flaws . A must read for science fiction fans and for general readers interested in environmental issues and about the future development of planet earth . ",3
"I had great hopes but was very disappointed with this book . None of the main are likable . Most behave like idiots that would never be chosen to lead an expedition to Mars . Further the story is sort of told in the perspective of the character . But as the story moved through time all of a sudden you are getting one character 's story line to the exclusion of the others . Not attempt is made to integrate the whole story resulting in a very disjointed and impossibly convoluted book . Then there is a half baked attempt to turn this into a political theory discussion with an incredibly violent revolution about 60 % through the book that effectively destroys everything that had been built in the first part of the book . WTF ? The our surviving lead characters become a wandering lost tribe . It just makes no sense.To the author 's credit his description of the Martian landscapes are wonderful . But I ca n't recommend this book . ",1
"When I was 15 I checked this book out of the library and tried to read it . It looked fascinating especially with the bulk of it next to its two sequels intriguingly titled Green Mars and Blue Mars.However I was bored to tears by the book . Disappointed I gave up halfway through.This year I tried Red Mars again . My impressions this time are quite different . The reviewers who complain that this book is boring and has no plot do have a point . KSR is renowned for being one of the few science fiction writers to be able to write characters convincingly . His book The Wild Shore is one of my favourites in this regard . Yet all that talent seems to have been placed on hold here the characters are weirdly shallow with the shallowness seeming to increase towards the later chapters.We are never totally sure for example why one of the characters murders the other in chapter one . Was it jealousy ? A desire to become a dictator ? Who knows . Also the events near the end where the character of Nadia pushes a certain button and where Ann overcomes her depression seem really really stilted and weird.Similar problems exist with the plot . There are entire chapters where nothing seems to happen . I am thinking in particular about the loooong chapter where John Boone effectively wanders around Mars with nothing to do . And who exactly was behind all the sabotage and the political revolution ? That aside I still highly recommend this book if you look for what it offers . The descriptions of Martian terrain are often superb and the descriptions of possible future technologies as well as habitation and terraforming techniques are quite fascinating . Did you know that greenhouses on Mars would need very very thick glass ? That if you broached a Martian aquifer near a crater with a very deep mine in it the water would go into the crater and stay liquid because of the heat inside the mine ? ? Or that Martian dust is so fine that no seal can keep it out and it explodes on contact with liquids ? This is indeed hard science fiction . I am not exactly technically minded myself I majored in Ancient History but I can still appreciate the appeal of sheer hardware and ecology . It 's not so much that KSR is coasting it 's just that his emphasis is elsewhere in this book . Even if you find yourself yearning for more emphasis on character you can just choose to wallow in the beauty of seeing a Martian sunset on blackandpurple sand dune or watching a dirigible pushing its way through a Martian storm . There is also some of the culture of California in this book as in all KSRs with the buildings glittering with glass and the sun and sand everywhere ! Some have said that the politics in this book are offensively heavy handed . Compared with The Gold Coast it positively is not . Yes it 's kinda left leaning but I can not see how one can see this book as advocating a communist dictatorship quite the reverse if anything . ",3
"I have on my shelf Red Mars Green Mars and Blue Mars by Robinson and I 've had them for years . When it comes to reading lengthy trilogies I really have to be in the mood and have plenty of reading time . When I finally felt the time was right I picked up Red Mars and started reading . And reading . Although the book begins with a murder and is a day in the future of the Martian colony the story begins with the first hundred a hundred people who will be the first to live on Mars the ones who will figure out how to survive there with the tools and knowledge they bring with them . The ship is described as rather like a bunch of cans tied together which seems silly but it 's one thing that makes good sense once they land on Mars and can use the modules for living quarters etc.The ship sounds spacious for such a venture yet people ca n't help getting on each other 's nerves . They group together promoting their own agendas arguing and just generally not getting alone . Then something happens and voila ! All friends again . For a while . Then something else happens and voila ! ! They 're at each other 's throats again . The same holds true once they get to Mars with one group deciding to settle on the moon for a while instead of going all the way to the planet . Although the first hundred are mostly scientists and experts in their fields they act like children not only in arguing to get their way but also splitting into factions each working on projects willy nilly as if there was very little planning.The next groups of people to settle on the red planet just seem to come as they please and include political groups transnational companies all people with an agenda hoping to can make money from or dominate the red planet with . There seems to be little cohesion either in the actions of the Martian settlers or in the story itself . For pages and pages Boone the first man to have landed on Mars goes walkabout in land and air vehicles just thinking about what 's going on . Wondering who is sabotaging equipment and projects . He meets other groups stays and talks with them learns nothing and goes on his way.Books with little action and much introspection are not a new thing in literature and there have been some marvelous works of fiction in that vein . The writing might be lyrical the plot interesting a seeming purpose to the overall story . I could n't get far enough into Red Mars to find if there is some of that there . I had to stop reading because I was not enjoying anything about the book . Had some of the characters had interesting qualities I might have persevered . But they did n't . Nor did the story . This book is n't for me . But there are lots of people who enjoyed it and there are probably many more out there . ",0
"First of all I want to point out to the scientists that this is a science FICTION book . It was n't intended to be a textbook on the colonization of Mars . Hence the raving review by Clarke . Yes a solarpowered windmill on Mars is a bit farfetched but I was willing to overlook it because it is fiction.Now . I found the book in a discount book store and picked it up because it looked like a good read . I have to admit I was overwhelmed by the sheer magnitude of filler in the book . I agree with one poster that the author appeared to be trying a bit to hard to display his general knowledge . I found myself skimming pages.The characters were certainly rigid . The author went to great pains to develop the characters but ultimately failed to give them any real depth He 's certainly no Orson Scott Card.The book begins in the middle of the story flashes back to the beginning and then moves on . I thought this was strange . However the general read with the exception of scores of pages that could have been omitted was good . I enjoyed following the characters through the story and ultimately to the safe haven at the end.I gave this book three stars because it held my attention long enough to finish it . However I feel I will expect more from the second book which I will begin this evening . ",2
"It 's difficult to exert influence in this area of the genre where so many other writers have capably written before Bradbury 's Martian Chronicles for example . Yet astonishingly Robinson 's book is so goodinspired reallythat it is impossible to imagine any future novel of colonization written without feeling the force of Red Mars . It will change the publishing world.WHO SHOULD READAny person who reads should read this book . Even those readers who tend to eschew not just speculative fiction but fiction itself will find merit in reading this book . It has much to say not just about Mars but also about intelligent people who are placed in stressful positions . Red Mars is one of the very best examples of speculative fiction . It is entirely accessible and could be read by students in high school and enjoyed equally by readers all the way through retirement.WHO SHOULD PASSThere are examples though not graphic of premarital sex . Heterosexuals are occasionally naked with reason . In the final summation it 's really only a PG13 rated book . This might still give pause to anxious parents who are trying to shelter their kids in some weird church that does not intend the congregation to live in the real world . This is an otherwise absolute donotmiss book.READ THE ENTIRE REVIEW AT INCHOATUS.COM ",4
"Robinson 's Mars Trilogy begins as admirably written hard science fiction based for the most part on physics and geology . As the story progresses the plot is based more and more upon Robinson 's previous suppositions than on fact in short he begins to extrapolate . By the last page of the last book we 're asked to believe that human beings can postpone death almost indefinitely have solved the problem of war and are ready to colonize space all in about three hundred years . My willing suspension of disbelief wore out about twothirds of the way through the last book . ",3
"Yeah the plotting is plodding the characters save one are cutouts and the politics ponderous but I know I 'll remember the trilogy throughout my life and it 's probably going to be one of the few things I 'll take the time to reread . The one character of course is Mars . That 's the deal . You either buy into it or not . ",4
"So I started reading this book on Kindle because it was free . At first I liked it . I was even considering buying the 2 other books in the trylogy Green Mars and Blue Mars . I enjoyed the way the author narrated the story moving from character to character . I enjoyed the description of the travel from Earth to Mars . I enjoyed the political discussions the first few daysyears on Mars.I was even fine with some of the inconsistencies for example if you were going to populate Mars why would you spend time and resources to do the same with one of its moons at the same time ? It did n't make sense to me and the book did not give any justification for this . They simply sent some of the scientists to the Mars moon and the rest to the planet itself . No big deal . But in my mind an inconsistency nevertheless.And then the book went on to describe Mars geography . At first it was fine but after a while it became really boring . I typically like to read details but when they matter to the story or they make sense . To describe Mars landscape in such level of detail did not add anything to the story . I started to gloss over those long descriptions.So as I was reading the book I played with the idea of stop reading it . Why waste my time . But I wanted to like it and I continued . Until I got to 70 % of the book . I decided to stop and go read something else.I finally decided to stop reading after realizing how weak the author was in character development . There are two important characters that are quite different one is an adventurer who likes to move from place to place and engage in small projects . The other one is an administrator who seems to like to be in the office and deal with administrative and bureaucratic stuff . Part 5 of the book is dedicated to the first one the adventurer . Part 6 is focused on the second one the administratorbureaucrat . So in Part 5 the adventurer is doing what he likes to do travel from settlement to settlement visiting with people . Midway through part 6 we find the bureaucrat immediately after obtaining a major success in a political conference leaving his office life behind and joining a group of nomads travelling from place to place . The same way the first character did the adventurer . So in short the author seems to like to describe Mars geography more than anything . And as a result any character he is focusing on will be travelling from place to place all the time Even if it does n't make sense to the storySo I decided to stop reading my first book I did n't finish . And I will not buy the other books in the series . ",1
"At the rate we 're going I do n't think we 're going to have governmentsponsored Mars colonization but commercialsponsored . But if we do have governmentsponsored Robinson has a pretty good plan here.The romantic angle he throws in concerning Coyote and Hiroko stretches a bit but is the most entertaining part of the book.It 's a pretty hefty novel but it reads right through perfectly blending action with good science and a good storyline . JJ Timmins ",4
"I wanted to like this book . I really did . I love epic literature and having recently fallen in love with hard scifi I thought I 'd love this too . After all it 's an epic and it 's hard scifi . It also won a Nebula award and was nominated for other prestigious awards . How could I possibly go wrong with that ? Well go wrong I did and here 's howTo begin this book is n't really science fiction . It 's like a work of regular fiction crossed with a science textbook about Mars and it does n't do either very well . Anyone reading this review who has n't read the book is probably scratching his head trying to figure out what I mean by that but if you 've ever read any other scifi after you read this you 'll know what I 'm talking about . The plot moves at a glacial pace and Robinson takes a paragraph to describe what could be adequately described in one sentence . About a third of the way through when Robinson took a whole paragraph to describe someone screwing in a bolt I put the book down and have n't picked it up since.I did n't get far enough into the book to get to any of the politics but I know from reading reviews that the leader of the procorporate faction Phyllis Boyle was also an intolerant bornagain Christian with an abrasive personality who was disliked by everyone else . This is predictably hackneyed but perhaps not surprising since out on the left coast where Robinson is from it 's a not uncommon belief that us rubes here in the hinterland spend all of our spare time handling snakes at tent revivals and voting against Democrats because we hate nonwhites and gays and would rather be enslaved by WalMart than see any of them get a fair chance in life.Then there was the head of the Russian contingent Maya Toitovna . In the real world such a histrionic floozy as her would never get anywhere near a mission such as this let alone be put in a major position of authority within it . In fact most of the characters were so thoroughly annoying that by the time I finally put the book down I was hoping that some grotesque form of alien life would show up and kill and eat them.All in all I 'm glad I checked this piece of hack trash out from the library and did n't pay any money for it . It 's sad that this along with the other books in the Mars series have taken the place of the bestknown and most extensive work on the colonization and terraforming of Mars as it 's an epic subject and it deserves so much better.If you 're new to SciFi and want to wet your feet avoid this and check out something by Arthur C. Clarke . He 's a master of the genre and hisCollected Storieswould be an ideal tome for you to cut your teeth on . Hell evensomething by Lionel Fanthorpewould be better than this . His writing is at least bad enough to be entertaining and he at least steers clear of politics . ",0
"Considering I 'm both a Marshead and a futurist five stars was a very easy call.Red Mars fanned my interest in planetary exploration to a blaze . KS Robinson 's detailed prose about the Martian landscape and wellformed depictions of the people and technologies that would pave the way for exploration made the dream of extraterrestrial human settlement tantalizingly real.For the first half of the book I looked at all of the technology and thought We can DO this ! From their spacecraft to their environment suits to their settlements everything seemed so close that with an ounce of political will it could all happen . For those who prefer more futuristic but also supposedly feasible gadgets from their scifi authors Robinson makes a couple of assumptions about materials science and biotech and gives us a carbonfilament space elevator built by selfreplicating von Neumann machines antiaging treatments and organisms that can survive the harsh Martian climate.Although some may disagree his extrapolation of the sociological implications of these advances is also compelling . Some have sneered at the Red in Red Mars with the scorn of a true McCarthyite . Those reviewers ignore the fact that the bulk of the people in spacefaring countries on Earth not to mention scientists in general are a bit to the left of most Americans . Seen from this perspective the mildly socialist viewpoints expressed in the book are not only explicable but an insightful prediction of future progressive cultures.To explore all of these grand ideas KS Robinson creates a fairly large cast of fascinating characters . While it is apparent that some of them exist mostly to advocate one viewpoint or another Sax the scientific wonder of terraforming Anne the bare grandeur of the original Red Mars Arkady the sociological possibilities of another world Phyllis crass commercial exploitation they are given fleshedout personalities and their relationships with each other are still a good reason to read the book.Drawbacks Some are upset that rather than having an adventurestory plot Red Mars is half an Audubon Guide and half a historical narrative about the trials of the First Hundred then the first hundred thousand settlers on Mars . Others as I have said dislike his politics . Most comment on his lengthy descriptions of geological formations on Mars . Personally I liked these but make the next edition with a glossary please ! Still if these had been replaced with panoramic fullcolor artist 's renderings that would probably have helped most readers.In all one of my favorite books of all time and truly deserving of all the awards and praise it got . ",4
"Red Mars is a truly epic story . It follows the first 100 people to land on Mars through the first 30 years or so of colonization . It starts at the initial building stages of the planet which I quite liked and then slowly over the years and pages ! blends the political sociological and scientific problems that come from development and growth on the planet . The book weaves through several characters each getting sections of the book and their different relations to Mars.Red Mars has many positives going for it . KSR does a superb job describing Mars and the technology needed to slowly alter the geology geography atmosphere and hydrology of the planet . With an earth science background I found that part of the story fascinating and you really do feel that you are on Mars . His descriptions sometimes drag and repeat but overall I enjoyed the barrenness of this world . He also touches on the biology of the planet and to a lesser extent people and I had to take most of this at his word . The plot does move slowly but I found myself drawn into the story and kept reading to find out and uncover more about what was going on . Several small surprises pop up in the book to keep you rewarded . Topics such as economics sociology and especially politics continually grow throughout the novel with various characters taking different sides of these issues . However some of this becomes quite weighty and bogs down with tangents that sometimes do not seem to go anywhere . The scifi ideas presented in the novel tent cities walkers vehicles ranged from realistically interesting to almost fantastical I wo n't mention these . But for those near the upper limit of realism I found that I could go with it a tribute to KSR 's ability to describe them in a way that made me believe them enough.The characters in the novel are a bit more of a mixed bag . Some of the characters were interesting and well fleshed out but were described with typical traits that seem to come up in passing booming laugh owl eyes etc . that made them somewhat caricatures . This then leaked into their personalities as well making them mildly predictable . Other characters are noted only in passing but with somewhat substantial parts . I did like some of the characters while others were more irritating and predictable.Given that this is an epic there are periods in the novel that are glossed over leaving you to fill in the gaps which generally is OK but also left me thinking what happened during that time ? . Sometimes this works other times it is frustrating . And even though the book is about Mars there are snippets of an earth disasterrevolt unfolding that left me oddly wanting to know about Earth in a book about Mars ! This is also where the book sometimes stretches credibility somewhat as resources are clearly being used to send people to Mars but these ideas are also not used on Earth ? Could Earth in this state really support a colony on Mars ? Again one of those things you have to just take on faith.This is my second book by KSR and I found it oddly similar to his later written Antarctica . There are plot points characters and devices that are used in both . Although I did not mind this as that is why I picked up Red Mars after Antarctica I do hope Mars goes in a different direction . Like Antarctica there is a decent map provided at the beginning but not many places are shown . So when regions are mentioned in the text it is somewhat confusing where characters are or where events took place . Given that locationgeographygeology is sometimes important to the story I found this to be a bit of an irritating oversight.SUMMARY The book is a wonder of colonization of another planet . The ideas and descriptions are superb and it had a very modern feel even though it was written several years ago now . It has the feeling that it could happen this way . The story is slow and the characters sometimes are flat but overall I enjoyed the book and if you can buy into some of the science technology time and character leaps it is almost a 45 say 78 % . Green Mars coming up next ! ",3
"I really enjoyed the characters plot and technology in Red Mars . I 'd give it a 5 except that it leaves in the middle of the story . You really ca n't read it without wanting to read the 2 followup books and they 're so bad that you 'll wish you had n't started . ",3
"It was all I could do to muster the enthusiasm to read while engaged with this novel . Why ? Very Technical . So much so it got into the way of the story . Disguised propaganda encased in a story ? Yes . The idea of the story cloaked in this book kept me reading . If you must have the experience of pain reading this book but do not want to read it cut off a toe with a razor . You may feel the same after is all over . ",0
"This first book of Robinson 's massive threebook epic is the interesting one . The first book is about the journey travelling on Mars exploring technology and the like . The political struggles and interpersonal intrigue have started but this book does n't rest on them . I would n't say that Red Mars is a page turner but at least it is n't a page flipper like to me at least the next two.Red Mars starts out being a hard SF tech novel but by the time it 's done it has mutated into a mostly political work that could just as easily be written about somewhat incestuous neighbors wrangling for control of your own subdivision 's community association . That trend continues in the later books where the technology becomes a sort of background murmur and most of the text is devoted to longwinded and somewhat distant arguments.Enjoy Red Mars for the not terribly intimate and moderately bloated saga of planetary exploration and development that it is . But do n't expect as much from the later books . They 're suitable for stuckonanairplanewithsixhourstokill reading but not all that exciting otherwise . ",3
"When I bought the Kindle version of this book on July 25 2010 it came with the cover art . Now it 's been replaced by a generic one . If you buy the printed version you get the original cover art . The same should be true of the Kindle version . Apparently that is no longer the case . It may not be a big deal to most readers but it is to me . I feel shortchanged and Amazon has n't helped at all when I approached them with this matter . ",4
"I 'm no scholar have n't an encyclopedic knowledge or memory and am unable to discuss erudite thematic stuff . I met scifi in the lateFifties went back to Verne Stapledon et al and have n't stopped reading it . If it 's an interesting idea I 'll read it . A good story starts with that what if ? and runs with it how things might look what are some consequences how do the people live it . A great story will draw one in captivate and enthrall and not let go . One lives it one cares what happens . The story ends . One acknowledges and wants more.This is a great story . ",4
"Not necessarily an easy read but very in depth story telling of a very interesting topic . If the idea of terraforming Mars holds any interest for you this is a must read . ",4
"I do n't normally write reviews but Red Mars and the rest of the trilogy is my favorite book of all time . It 's true that hardcore spaceflight enthusiasts may like this book more than a casual reader but even my nonspaceflight enthusiast friends rave about this book . Robinson does an excellent job building up an ensemble cast of unique personalities who you as the reader truly come to know as real people . I feel like I have known the characters in this book as if they were real people.In addition to the wonderful cast of characters there is the planet itself Mars . Robinson makes Mars feel like a real place like no other . When I look at real maps of Mars I see Burroughs Underhill Acheron and Sabishii the cities of Red Mars . The ancient landscape comes alive through his colorful and intricate descriptions . After reading Red Mars the red planet will no longer be an abstract concept it will be a location.I highly recommend this book to everybody I know but if you are even remotely a science fiction spaceflight or engineering fan you owe it to yourself to read this book and its two sequels as soon as possible . ",4
"Got this for a huge Scifi and space opera fan . He loved the book and said it is a great trilogy . ",4
"The kind of Science Fiction that is an extrapolation from currently technology is difficult to do in a believable way and this book does it well . It also features multiple characters with personalities and arcs that one ends up feeling to have met and known them as people in their lives . Want to get right on to the next one . ",4
"This review is not about the book story or author I regret buying this book on the Kindle without Text to Speech . I am a busy reader that needs to keep a story going during my commute when I ca n't read and then pick up reading when I have a break publishers should be more concerned about selling books than limiting the medium of my unabridged consumption . ",0
"I loved the concept an epic series of colonizing Mars but the book rambles endlessly . I do n't need to be taught pseudoscience on terraforming . Just tell me the basics and I 'll willingly suspect my disbelief . I do n't need pages of math & science it does n't add to the literary value.I had no interest in the other books in the series . ",1
"As in most great space stories this story has a rich background in science and a detailed development of the characters . There are more than just a few characters and relationships to follow to keep it interesting . It is a believable story of the future almost like an advanced history . The unfolding of the characters and character relationships are a pleasure to read . The story continues to roll along at a good pace without being bogged down with too many extraneous details . For the multiplexer it is a story that you can break away from periodically and are always glad to pick back up . Red Mars makes you think about the exploration of pristine environments and the politics of changing such environments . I have yet to complete the RED Mars story but already have plans to read the full trilogy . ",4
"It feels like going to work every time I pick up the book . Too much detail too much politics . ",2
"Red Mars is a little more hard scifi than I prefer . If you prefer science over story then you will probably enjoy this book . I think KSR is a marvelous writer & his tale is a good and compelling one it 's just not my taste . ",1
"that 155 people rated this as 5 star . I agree with every 1 and 2 star review BORRRRiiing . I have been reading for 50 years and only never finished 1 book . Now 2 . I hate this author 's style of writing pages of technobabble with scientific formulas that neither make sense to the lay reader nor serve a purpose followed by such minute details of irrelevantstupid things like the page long description of the contents of a tool box . Then there is the overuse and abuse of the word and . The author must never have heard of the use of commas . All of the endless descriptions of the Martian surface being flat and dusty with the scattered rocks really helps my insomnia though . I only made it to Chapter 11 so I guess I never got far enough for all the political hoorah other reviewers referenced . I just did n't get it . I was hoping for a great story about colonizing a new world . What I got was the second worst book I have ever tried to read . I 'm glad I did n't pay for this . ",0
"I spent the better part of the time it took me to read this book experiencing two states confusion and and extreme desire to get through it . Getting through this dense space opera is no easy task though . I did it though and although I can not understand why I want to finish this trilogy if only to find out how the transformation of Mars in these books is completed or even if it is managed at all.I found Mr. Robinson 's style mindnumbing at times . He must have become an expert in both Martian geology and Martian geography each specially less likely than the last . I applaud the author 's knowledge of Mars but frankly I found that often I did not care where on Mars the characters were or what it looked like . His penchant of focusing so closely on description of martian geography took something away from the geewhiz adventure of it all.I did enjoy the occasional human drama of the story . Who knew that if a bunch of brilliant scientists were sent on a Mission from Mars with little or no reason to listen to their handlers back on Earth their behavior would resemble that of young teenagers ? I enjoyed their occasional broodings their frequent hysterics and their abilities to wrangle the simplest matters into the realm of high drama . Perhaps all of that is a function of the author 's acumen but it was fun nevertheless.I wondered quite often at the colony 's ability to expand so quickly . The technologies presented near the beginning of the story are recongnizable and probably a few of them we will have a handle on by the time we are able to journey to Mars but the technology has gotten way out of reason by the end of the book . I do n't think giant domes that can cover an entire martian crater will ever by physically possible one hundred or five hundred years from now . Physics is physics.Overall this novel was not a waste of time . I know that 's not a glowing endorsement but it 's all I can give . ",2
"I 'll not mince words Kim Robinson 's books can be long slogs through dry technical material . It 's his writing style detailed and full of depth . That 's not going to fly with some people . Sometimes even if you love it you 'll have to put the book down and walk away for awhile . But the Mars series is so powerful so well done and so relevant that I would classify it as one of the 'important ' works that everyone needs to read.But these books have rich complex characters who remind me of the people I 've met throughout my career in science and business . They have full histories and their interactions are complex and alwaysevolving . The series follows the same characters over hundreds of years their lives are extended through science ! and thus allows the reader to follow the colonization and terraforming efforts on Mars over a long course of time . The first settlers who are our viewpoint characters have children and fight and die and exist in a greater context of cultural tides that ebb and flow and affect how they think . You the reader experience these changes along with them feeling their sorrows and their triumphs.It 's a difficult journey . It feels tedious at times . But it is exceptionally realistic and wellresearched . If people were to go to Mars in the next two decades to settle there this could be a lot of what it would look like . And interestingly many of the cultural undercurrents are very relevant to the political discussions going on lately about just how much power and influence corporations ought to have . It 's worth reading for that if you feel you can handle the bits where Robinson waxes poetic about katabatic winds and Martian geography.Red Mars itself focuses on the initial colonization and how the first decisions made by the settlers can have effects that last hundreds of years . It 's a complicated book full of engineering politics and change . I hope you enjoy it . ",3
"Chutzpah ! That 's the word that comes to mind when I think about Kim Stanley Robinson sitting down one day and saying hmmm I think I 'll write a detailed scientifically rigorous realistic book actually trilogy about the human colonization of another planet specifically Mars . And besides the science and technology of it I 'll basically write a 'how to ' guide listing all the potential problems in terms of politics philosophy economics sociology ecology and human psychology . Finally I 'll explore how developments on Earth affect the Martian colonization effort and vice versa . And finally I 'll make all this both intelligent enough to be read by a scientist and understandable and entertaining enough for the average reader . No problem ! And somehow for the most part Kim Stanley Robinson pulls it off . Sure the characters can be onedimensional and even grating and annoying the plot can get confusing and melodramatic at times epic upheaval rivalries loves friendships forming and falling to pieces yikes sounds like a bad romance novel ! and the whole book sometimes feels like it 's about to come crashing down like the space elevator Robinson is NOT a great narrative writer that 's for sure ! but still.what a vision what an ambitious undertaking what a tremendous amount of research obviously went into this and what a fascinating subject ! This is true SCIENCE fiction and a credible vision even a blueprint for what human colonization of Mars and the future of Earth could be like in the nottoodistant future . Personally after reading I admit sometimes it felt like slogging through this book I now believe that human colonization of Mars is realistic not just a dream and with technology now in existence under development or within our g rasp in the coming decades nanotechnology biotechnology materials science etc . Finally after reading Red Mars I came to believe that is not only FEASIBLE to colonize Mars but probably I still have my doubts especially if we just make the same mistakes we have made in screwing up the Earth WORTH it as well.My major problems with Red Mars the characters can be cardboardonedimensional annoying stereotypical i.e . Sax the brilliant rational but passionless at least on the surface scientist Ann the moody emotional also brilliant in her own way Red Mars purist Hiroko the mysterious Japanese Green Mars cult figure John Boone the politician etc . Coyote the mysterious revoluationaryanarchist and even laughable at times the plot can get very confusing especially with its cast of thousands and its unfamiliar places and names more and better maps plus a topnotch appendix would have been extremely helpful ! things can get repetitive how many times can we hear the same basic RedGreen argument for instance without getting sick of it ? and the writing style can be dry LOTS of technobabble humorless and verrrry slow and also so predictable at times you can see things coming 50 pages away.Is this great fiction ? Definitely not in fact it 's pretty bad at times ! Is this a great book ? Well I would n't go THAT far ! Is this a great accomplishment ? Well yes most definitely ! If you 're at all interested in space exploration and specifically Mars I strongly recommend that you read this book . After reading Red Mars I 'm ready to sign up for the first mission to Mars when do we leave ? ",2
"Robinson 's prose may not always sparkle his narrative may plod along from time to time and his characters may lack a dimension or two . No matter . In the space of 600 pages Robinson creates in breathtaking detail an entire world and a believable world at that . For anyone who still harbord dreams of being an astronaut or stepping on the moon Red Mars is a must read . I look forward to reading the companion volumes . ",4
"the book was interesting but tedious to read . i 'm not sure i will read the next book in the series . ",2
"Red Mars is a crowning achievment for KimStanley Robinson . It appears that he has studied hard for this trilogy the books are packed with detailed descriptions of mars 's topography scientific ideas and the hardships of colonization . The only downside in my eyes are the lengthy descriptions of the surface i could n't concentrate for so long and i skipped a few lines here and there . Summary excellent A+ book ",4
"This book has been a huge disappointment . I keep reading it hoping a real story will develop . Yes the science of terraforming Mars is intriguing but all too simplistic in Robinson 's account . The characters are paper thin and for the most part ANNOYING . The only real character is conveniently disposed of just as an actual plot was developing . The only reason I will finish this is is out of a hope that Frank Maya Hiroko and the rest of the annoying lot will somehow meet a cruel and painful death at the hands of Ray Bradbury and Edgar Rice Burroughs at the end . If you want a classic about Mars go read Bradbury 's Martian Chronicles . ",0
"I love this book and I 've enjoyed my paperback for years . I was delighted by the giveaway of the free Kindle edition but it 's worth a note that the map at the front of the book is utterly illegible on the Kindle . This is totally fixable it just needs to be resized and reoriented in the proper aspect ratio . IMO the publisher should expend a small bit of effort to make sure that the ebook edition is just as readable and enjoyable as the print version . ",3
"This is a complex thoughtful and thoughtprovoking book . The science what I can judge of it is relatively plausible and in multiple fields well researched and presented . But beyond the science the human drama that unfolds is absolutely riveting.Robinson develops a large number of characters without ever losing the narrative thread of his story . The plots and subplots all intertwine and interact beautifully . And the story he unfolds showing the growth of different philosophical groups the financial and political struggles and the human level of impact is absolutely riveting.Big and complex as the book admittedly is I could barely put it down . I will necessarily be finishing the entire trilogy and will definitely look at anything this author has written ",4
"Red Mars the first of Kim Stanley Robinson 's Mars Trilogy is a derivative work of science fiction that redeems itself through its epic scale and variety of characters . The basic plot is rather simple earth has gone to hell in a handbag and Mars is mankind 's new hope . The story begins with the arrival of 100 settlers in 2026 and spans roughly sixty years following the first expidition . During this time rivalries among the settlers lead to dramatic changes in both the planet and the characters.Robinson 's pace makes the sixty years go by very briskly he does not waste time giving too many details about how the planet was colonized and insead focuses on the characters . With all of the Latin names given to surface features on Mars it is hard to keep them straight but the planet provides for a dramatic setting that matches the conflicts between the various characters . I disliked Robinson 's decision to begin the book with the death of John Boone the first man on Mars and then regress to the first settlement of Mars . The plot follows a linear structure for most of the book and while this introduction provides a hook it 's inconsistent with Robinson 's writing style.Another thing I disliked was the petty nature of many characters . Although the settlers of Mars are supposed to be intelligent and resourceful they are also childish and manipulative . Robinson exaggerates these features until they resemble a soap opera.Red Mars deals with many themes the most obvious of which is the inevitablilty of progress . The book has a bleak tone to it . But the settlers of Mars are victims of progress both technological and societal and the most interesting feature is how the Martians begin to develop a culture and a folklore that is distinct from that of earth.Fans of Hard science fiction should probably stay clear of Red Mars but readers of conventional fiction may use this novel as a means of getting into scifi novels . The futuristic background is merely a canvas for painting the picture of a group of humans all frail in their own ways as they stumble towards their inevitable destiny . I thought that Red Mars was okay but I will not be reading the rest of the Mars Trilogy . ",2
"I am a science fiction reader and have some understanding of the tenets and motifs of the genre however I found the novel far too wordy . I found myself skipping page after page of mainly political jargon and authorspeak that got in the way of what could potentially be a good yarn.I understand that the new Martians had a dream of creating some sort of utopia that would leave behind all the problems the Terrans were trying to overcome wars starvation pestilence and a host of other earthly problems but as more and more factions joined the first hundred they brought with them their own inherited issues and dogmas . So the dreams of the first hundred are at the end just an illusion.Do n't get me wrong Kim Stanley Robinson is a superb writer and when he occasionally lets the story unfold it is good reading until we get to the next block of unneccesary verbosity then I find myself flicking through page after page of twaddle . I hope the next book in the series is more readable . ",1
"I gave the book three stars because the first half was interesting but the second half made little sense . I 've written much more about the second half only because I thought this needed more explanation.The book did start out very interesting as the author described his vision as to how Mars would first be settled . As has been discussed in some reviews there was n't much drama in this book other than the romantic entanglements and political disagreements . But the concepts were interesting enough to make up for the lack of drama . The author describes this settlement as a group of 100 very qualified engineers and scientists . They obviously have various different points of view on how to start this Martian civilization but they make it work.The second half of the book delves into what happens when new immigrants come to Mars . In only 510 years after the first 100 create this foothold thousands of new immigrants come to the planet . Economically it all seems too easy . I find it more credible in those SF stories that shows new settlers having constant difficulties even surviving on a planet no people have ever been to before . Presumably all the food people are eating is coming from greenhouses in their domes . Where do all the nutrients come from ? Were they all in the soil that was brought from Earth ? As far as I can tell they never use Martian soil for any farms . Yet there is never a shortage of food in any dome that the writer speaks of and in fact they all seem to have parks in every dome also . But how this all occurs I do n't know because the author never discusses farming in the second half.In fact the author seems to ignore sustainability altogether in the second half . None of the characters focused on in the second half do anything to create goods needed for survival . They are all involved in politics or administration or terraforming for the far future . It is rather incredible that Mars so quickly creates such a surplus that so many can spend their time at secondary tasks . And it is never explained where all these goods are coming from personal clothing materials for the domes furniture computers supplies energy walkers what everyone uses to travel outside the domes and even personal gliders . Since there do n't seem to be any factories on Mars or even craft industries all this stuff must be coming from Earth.In many SF stories such details are n't important because the environment is just a background around which the important action is happening . But there is n't much action going on in the story except for the creation of the new Martian civilization so it is important to talk about how this civilization grows . And the story kept talking about how the Earth wants to send more and more people there to escape the unsustainable population on the home planet but how can that be if Mars is bleeding a lot more resources from Earth than it sends back ? Of course they keep talking about mining on Mars for Earth purposes but through most of this period they do n't even have an economic method of returning these minerals to Earth . And even after the elevator is built it is very hard to believe that mining will pay for everything else the Earth sends to Mars.Oh yes the politics . The author 's socialistic beliefs do come through . Apparently they do n't even have money on Mars since Terran money is illegal and apparently no one is making money locally . I guess everyone just takes what they need ? I guess that can work in a magical economy that creates plenty of food and other goods for everyone without anyone actually creating these goods . Not really a very good argument for socialism.So I do n't plan to read the next two books . The author has interesting ideas about building a settlement on an alien planet but he does n't really have a clue about more complex societies . ",2
"I read this book at the recommendation of a friend . I truly enjoyed the story but I felt there may have been a bit too much technical detail . I guess it was probably important to the story but every time I started to get into the storyline the author infused it with a dose of science . You can read this book and skip over that data and still understand everything if you like . I found myself skipping a few of the pages . ",2
"Kim Stanley Robinson has pulled off the best 'wagon train to Mars ' scenario I could imagine . This book reads like a journal of science fact encompassing the disciplines of physics astronomy physiology psychology criminology.. just about any ology there is . Instead of cold case studies this 'journal ' is told from the point of view of those involved in the development of a new branch of the human species . A personal experience for the tellers and narrators since they are this new human . This is hard science fiction . As close to the real and dangerous business of space travel as it 's possible to get . Radiation storms debris fields equipment malfunction everything in Murphys green earth Or Robinsons RED MARS that can go wrong or threaten to go amok does . The author has used his words to describe the magnificent desolation of the planet in a way that a fantasy like Ray Badbury 's THE MARTIAN CHRONICLES could not attempt yet these two works are bound together by the human factor . Avarice jealousy despair and lonliness are balanced by the determination of the few to survive and push ahead in a new land . The scale of the projects are terrifing awesome . Agendas abound . Creativity flourishes in a way we Terrans could not imagine . Make no mistake This book is twoinone . There is a book about the ancient world we call Mars and a book about the faulted fragile beings from the next planet over who come to wrest a new life from it . ",4
"What _Red Mars_ attempts is monumental Robinson examines humankind in work in love in politics spirituality reasoning madness life and death and attempts to chart a course for what we can become . The backdrop of Martian colonization is wellresearched and intriguing in itself and so are the science and theory that enables much of the book 's social and political change . And lest my weighty words decive you this book is fun . A few sections drag but there was no question that I had to find out how it would all end.The story 's great flaw is that it does take place on Red Mars . Robinson lets loose a hundred brilliant uninhibited neophiles and gives them the resources of a small nation to toy with . Many times during this book I felt like he was gratifying a highschooler 's wish for a magic wand that would let the dorks poets and sciencefiction fans run the world . His ideas about changing humanity are still quite valid ! I just wish they were realized in a setting more like the one we have to work with today.I also found Robinson 's lavish technical descriptions of Martian geology to be painful . They 're wellwritten and doubtless scientifically interesting but he just could n't make me care . As a research psychologist I also have to express that my profession and I completley and totally disown Michel Duval for reasons that should become clear.Despite this I give _Red Mars_ my hearty recommendation and think it should be part of the universal sciencefiction canon . This is because it 's followed by _Green Mars_ and _Blue Mars_ which improve on _Red_ in every way . The writing improves the characters feel more like our family and the environment gets more and more like the mess we nonelite earthlings are faced with in real life . If you 're with me in wanting to see the world become kinder smarter and less selfdestructive these are some ideas you should have in your head . ",3
"As readers of sciencefiction we have been treated to many novels about our famous red neighbor over the years . Whether it be the invading conqueror of H.G . Wells ' or the blood and thunder pulp of Burroughs or even the more scienfitic approaches of Bova or Bear Mars always seems to fascinate the human mind holding on and never letting go.With that said Red Mars is the best novel written on the subject of colonization . Robinson must have spent years researching this novel and it shows in every page as every detail is correct and meticulous . His story of a hundred colonists selected to start our next frontier is riveting and Robinson creates rounded characters with their own hopes fears and quirks . They orbit each other loving distrusting hating always moving back and forth as the years roll on . The planet changes them in ways they could never suspect . That 's one aspect of this novel.As always Earth is never far behind and Robinson also embroils us in the politics of our world taking our pettiness and applying it to an entire planet more interested in the bottom line than scientific research and human exploration . And yet through all of this Robinson is speaking telling us how colonization could be done how it should be done in his writing that 's second to none.Everything in this book shuffles together to create a mosiac of the future . Red Mars is about Mars it 's about colonists it 's about humanity about people about hope about dreams . I defy anyone to get past the engrossing beginning and not want to read the novel or to avoid taking sides during the terraforming arguments . This novel is a classic work and remains among if not the best novel Kim Stanley Robinson has ever written ",4
"Do n't believe the high praise many give this book . The characters are all unappealing and impossible to connect too the events are frequently unrealistic and the book drags terribly at times . It certainly is n't all bad . Sometimes it seems as if it 's about to get positively interesting but it always manages to get back off track . The idea the first colonist on Mars deal with idealogical conflicts about how to treat this new frontier could have made a compelling book . But in this case it did n't . ",1
"This is the first book in a series . I like this one a lot more then Green Mars and Blue Mars which I could not even finish Too much description of Mars . Page after page of it sometimes . The plot is actually pretty good when it moves along which it does pretty well from time to time . But lets be honest here the main character is Mars . It gets more time in this book then anyone else . Maybe that 's what they call Hard Sifi . Lots of talking about the world or technology . If that 's what you like this has lot of it . If you are more in to a plot and narrative driven story this book is only about half that . Give it a shot but do n't let the first 20 pages or so fool you . The story starts fast and strong but then quickly takes back set to Mars . ",2
"Amazing amazing book . The depth and breadth of the decadeslong plot the huge cast of vivid and distinctive characters and the novel 's hard science foundation combine make this the best book I have read in years . Many many years . ",4
"There is only one other trilogy that I devoured with as much fervor and hated to see it end and that was the Dragon Tattoo trilogy . These books are crazy good written in a style that hooks you immediately and makes you care for the characters . I 'm now reading the newest Robinson trilogy I 've just finished the first one and it 's just as crazy good . ",4
"I have mixed feelings about this book . I bought the paperback years ago and burned through the first third of it thinking how awesome it was . Once into the second third or so it does n't take long before the pace dies and you find yourself falling asleep trying to finish it . I set it down.Years later I thought I 'd give it another try only to find that I had given it away so I picked it up on Kindle . This time I did make it to the end but wow was it painful . The writing is excellent . The characters are realistic . The science is sound . It.just.moves.soooooo.sloooooooow . ",2
"This is the same review I posted for Green Mars . Also applies to Blue Mars . I 'd give it 0 stars if I could.I love epics so I plodded through this trilogy hoping it would get better but it never did . I could sense that Robinson was extremely proud of the detailed world he created but the story is horrible . The story unfolds glacially with no sense of movement . Just when you think you might be getting attached to a character heshe dies . Interesting story lines get dropped . There are long long stretches where Robinson just describes everyday life in excruciating boring detail . There is no excitement or suspense no character that grabs you . It 's like some dull person 's real life full of routine disappointment and boredom . Robinson 's typical character has a dream begins to pursue it getting you inspired then gets killed or just gives up and joins the cause he was fighting.This was the worst science fiction I have ever read . I ca n't believe I read all three books . ",0
"Now there are private enterprise plans for colonising Mars 2020 it is interesting to read the expectations of a SciFi author writing in 1990 . Perhaps the plans have been influenced by this triology sending ahead roboticlanders with equipment housing and stores . The author is very detailed in his descriptions of equipment and the geography of Mars probably to give veracity to the story but often I found this tedious and colorless . On occasions I thought the author was attempting only to display his own scientific knowledge or that of his consultant . As usual in SciFi the author is hopelessly optimistic about the rate of advance of engineering self manufacturing robotic machinery robotic mining smelting and forming of materials etc but without that the colony would have made little progress . The story gets more interesting once it gets down to the political whatifs of colonising Mars and the consequences of a deteriorating politicalenvironmental situation on Earth . The big baddies are the multinational conglomerates who have no interest in anything but power and profit which makes this book yet another with this theme . However none of these criticisms are shared by my husband so you must make of that what you will ! ",2
"I have to admit I could n't follow the science here to any great degree but that really did n't deter me from what I consider one of the best scifi novels I 've read in a while.Red Mars is the first of three books dealing with the colonization of Mars . Starting in the year 2026 the story deals with the first 100 men and women selected to go to Mars scientists and others known collectively as the first hundred . Not all of them see eye to eye on how things should go on the planet Some envision it completely terraformed some see it as an opportunity to launch a new and perfect society completely Martian without depending on life being molded in Earth format a vision of a new totally Martian existence . To be really honest I thought the political wranglings to be the best part of the book especially warnings about the future of society as big business tries to takes control of everything . Sound familiar ? Considering it was written 15 years ago I 'd say he 's not too far off the mark.While not really going into plot here trust me plot synopses are everywhere let me say that I 'd recommend this book to those who enjoy hard science fiction . If you 're looking for little green men or other types of monsters you wo n't find it here . I would guess that a lot of people will find it too long so if you want something quick & easy requiring very little thought you 're not going to like this one either . If you 're a reader who likes to pause and think then you 'll find a multitude of things to ponder between the covers.I plan to go on and finish the trilogy so that should be a recommendation within itself . Be sure you have lots of time before embarking on this book . You 'll need it . ",3
"its free it is a good bookand a good series ",4
"Writing Quality 710.Robinson 's oeuvre has often been described as literary science fiction and that is probably an apt description . I 'd be hardpressed to think of many scifi or fantasy writers who are more capable with varied vocabulary beautiful phrasing or engaging dialogue and I think he easily bests Robert Heinlein Orson Scott Card and Frank Herbert to name just a few . While I would n't put Robinson up there with the masters with Cormac McCarthy or Herman Melville he 's a very good writer with an ability to make technical science bloom with poetry . Robinson 's ability to squeeze poetry out of his material is not a constant but it 's always a pleasurable encounter . Ultimately though Robinson 's great literary contribution comes less from wordsmithing and more from the thoughtful intermingling of literary philosophical and scientific worlds.Depth of Concept 910.Robinson is first a thinker and second a writer . Do n't get me wrong he knows how to write and he writes better than most . Robinson honed his intellectual acumen over many years on the way to completing a doctorate in English and that academic training and rigor shows in his vocabulary in his comprehensiveness and in his interdisciplinary perspective . It 's clear that Robinson is obsessed with Mars but it 's hardly the pulpy stuff of Edgar Rice Burroughs think John Carter . This is a novel about politics about ecology about philosophy about sociology . I 'd suggest that Robinson 's worldbuilding is equally as impressive as Tolkien 's with more fascinating political and social twists and turns than George R. R. Martin could ever dream up . To be fair Robinson 's concepts are much more straightforward and perhaps less richly layered and certainly less ambiguous than what has been praised in Joyce or Melville or Rushdie or Pynchon . But what makes him especially intriguing is that Robinson is n't just making crap up he 's basing this tale of colonization on trajectories that humanity could legitimately take . As a literary project Red Mars is no Paradise Lost or Moby Dick but as an intellectual project it stands up there with the best that you could find . In its attention to detail and holistic thinking it puts any product of Larry Niven or Arthur C. Clarke or a host of other hard science writers to shame.Rounded Characters 710.Robinson 's characters do not have all the ambiguity and layered meaning that you 'll find in Melville or Joyce or Rushdie but his characters are welldeveloped varied and realistic . Red Mars is the story of a new world civilization starting from the seed of a scientific colony and the makeup of the first colonists and later immigrants is a complex mix of competing scientific and social interests . Robinson 's use of conflicting character point of view and changing political and social alliances brings out a depth and even ambiguity in most characters that keeps you guessing much as you would if reading a compelling biography without knowing the outcome ahead of time.WellDeveloped World 910.If you enjoy the prospect of a welldeveloped scientific thought experiment set in a viable near future this should be your first stop . Looked at another way and just for the sake of another comparison point both novels detail the life and times of two worlds in transition I 'd say that Robinson 's worldbuilding leaves Frank Herbert 's Dune far behind in the dust which I know might raise some hackles . Sure Herbert has his sand worms which I concede are awesome but Robinson 's worlds expand so smoothly and so far beyond his own vision and into the realities of our physical universe that his world viably encompasses quite a bit of the brilliant scientific and intellectual thought of many other revered thinkers whether scientific social or political.Page Turner 710.Robinson breaks up some really engaging events and conflicts with quieter character musings about science religion and society in that sense the pacing of the novel is not always consistent and this is probably not a novel that you 'd try to finish in a day . But that 's okay there 's so much in it to think about that it probably would serve you well to bite off hundredpage chunks to digest before moving on . There 's also the change in POV throughout the novel which works brilliantly as a way of presenting events and plotlines from different angles but also breaks up the tension of the narrative . The novel also sometimes reads a little bit dry and removed a bit like a rambling textbook with intense moments of change infrequently sprinkled throughout but not always with characters you care deeply about . But at its worst Red Mars should feel like a surprisingly entertaining university class you 'll complete it feeling educated intrigued with an expanded worldview or Mars view and perhaps even inspired by what humanity is on the cusp of achieving.Kept Me Thinking 810.Although Robinson 's novel did not capture my psyche in a state of existential or intellectual anxiety a good thing I swear ! comparable to a reading of Moby Dick or The Road it 's still an intellectual heavyhitter . Its insights and intellectual leaps tend along hardscience lines and if that 's your thing then you 'll find no better than this . But even if hard science is n't your thing Robinson 's awareness of Marxism feminism modern political developments and literary history provides a host of other concepts to muse about.___________________________________________________Overall Recommendation 810.This novel would be a worthy prereq for students entering university the sort that is often used to introduce freshmen to social realities they may not have encountered before . I remember being required to read Rachel Carson 's Silent Spring and Orhan Pamuk 's My Name is Red among others . I mean our own President has announced plans to put men on Mars during the same time period that Robinson projected nearly twenty years ago . It 's a project that would cost billions perhaps trillions of dollars and the ramifications of such a project are both incredible and risky . Robinson gets at the root of a lot of the issues that might be involved and if you 're going to be either a supporter or detractor of the NASA program which eats your tax dollars like candy this is a fabulously engaging narrative and resource Silent Spring by contrast bored me to tears.See my profile website for an expanded review ",3
"Kim Stanley Robinson 's RedGreenBlue Mars series is one of the great trilogies about Mars colonization . What makes it great is the science is believable and the character interactions spot on . This is not a series about bugeyed monsters and ray guns this is about humans colonizing Mars and the challenges they will face technical environmental social and political . I bought a hard back set for myself and lend my wellworn paperback set to friends . I am now reading more of Ms. Robinson 's books which is the best recommendation I could give . ",4
"The colonization of the Solar System has been a big topic in science fiction for decades and yet no book on the subject has met with as much success as Kim Stanley Robinson 's Mars series . The explanation is simple . When writing these books Robinson went to great lengths to include every aspect of how human life would change on another planet . When describing the first manned mission to Mars and the experience of the First Hundred settlers he looks in depth at all sorts of topics ranging from psychology How would it feel to be constantly faced by a planet that appeared completely different from Earth ? to the politics of terraforming Would everybody agree to plans to introduce life and create a biosphere on Mars or would some people resist ? Robinson displays solid scientific knowledge in an incredible array of fields and carefully weaves descriptions of the scientific progress that gets made into the story of the settlers ' efforts to colonize the planet.One of the best facets of Red Mars is the incredible description of the landscapes of Mars . Robinson gives a lot of thought to the topic of what the planet would actually look like to explorers standing on it from ground level . These sequences help set this book apart from other efforts where the planet is simply described as being red and rocky and left at that . When reading these descriptions you ca n't help but share the belief of some of the characters that Mar 's desolate terrain has its very own form of beauty . Of particular note are the landscapes during one character 's voyage to the polar ice cap near the start of Red Mars and when a group of characters are navigating a dangerous canyon near the book 's conclusion . Robinson also makes good use of the unique elements of geology and weather on Mars . For instance when there 's a gigantic dust storm on the planet he gives convincing portrayals not just of the storm itself but also of the depressing and claustrophobic effect that it has on the settlers when they are n't able to see more than a few feet when outdoors.The story is told from the perspective of several different characters each of them being the center of attention for about fifty pages . Some critics have complained about the quality of characterization in Robinson 's books . It 's definitely true that they do n't have the same complexity as characters should have in true literature . However they are satisfactory for telling the story that the author wants to tell . When two people have a discussion or argument in Red Mars it actually sounds genuine and convincing and there are some interesting looks at how differences in policy and worldview affect the relationship between characters.As a conclusion let me say something in response to those reviewers who insist on judging the book by the author 's politics rather than by the content of the book itself . Red Mars contains some amount of political and social commentary although it occupies only a fairly small portion of the six hundred page work . For instance there 's a brief section where one character must resolve a dispute between business leaders and laborers who are upset about their living conditions on Mars . Well this is just another example of what I mentioned earlier which is that Robinson carefully considered every aspect of what conditions would be like for early settlers on another planet and his explanation of the situation struck me as being very realistic . In Robinson 's vision of the future gigantic corporations work to undermine and supplant national governments on Earth as well as to control Mars some have complained that this is unrealistic . But those of us who keep up with world events know that we 're already starting to see the beginning of such a trend right now so there '' s nothing unreasonable about predicting that it will continue in the future . ",4
"Like others I had initial issues getting hooked on this critically acclaimed novel especially as I had just read my way through a glut of scifi page turners . In short it takes some gear switching but if you enjoy hard scifi & exemplary writing Red Mars is worth your time . Once I relaxed into the slow rhythms of the story I was simply awed . So much so I ended up reading the whole trilogy and enjoyed each successive book more than the last . Immensely satisfying read . ",4
"The basic concept of the book is cool especially if you 're into reading very lengthy descriptions . If you prefer action and dialogue this book is not for you you 'd be better of reading something fast paced likeThe Mars Conspiracy Cydonia ",2
"Robinson has taken a Herculean task to envision Mars ' colonization . His boldness shows in every page writing biology chemistry physics astrophysics he has made himself a target for scientific specialists of all kinds . As a layman I have no way of knowing if he stayed true to the facts but I do understand that his research has taken too much of his stamina in the process of writing the book.Red Mars comes out a bit dry as Robinson insists on outstretched portrayls of the Martian landscape and its terraforming . The reason for this is obviously setting the stage in the reader 's minds but when this is accompanied with a lack of character 's roundness the bottom line is disappointing.Another tendency of the author is choosing to depict major events like the revolution from a passive angle of those who 's participation is marginal if at all . And even when main characters are at the center of major events the reader does not find himself swept with emotions . You don not feel the action and the character.The positive aspetcs of the book are Athe plot by itself is a creative achievement and Bthe ideological premise of the story the tyranny of Corporate Capitalism is highly relevant today . These two are the source of my disappointtment with Red Mars.Hopefully Robinson has done a better job in the sequels . ",2
"Red Mars is an engrossing technical narrative of Mars colonization covering the entire catalog of issues that such an endeavor would involve from the psychological dimensions of extended space travel and confinement with a small closed community of scientists to the new challenges of establishing a society that is both entirely indebted to and yet entirely independent from the rest of humanity and human history . ",4
"Title Red Mars by Kim Stanley RobinsonPages 572.Time spent on the to read shelf 3 years.Days spent reading it 3 weeks.Why I read it I love science fiction . I like the idea of colonizing Mars . This book won the Nebula award in 1993 very prestigious SF awards . So I imagined I would like it.Brief review Red Mars is a novel about colonizing and terraforming Mars . It deals with all the facets of colonizing another planet scientific political personal nature business and government amongst others . It also theorizes on the consequences of that transformation.I picked up Red Mars not really knowing what to expect . I was blown away by Kim Robinson 's a man by the way grasp of the technical elements of space travel and colonization . I would not say that the technical side gets too heavy except occasionally . Robinson 's sheer knowledge of the technical side of space colonization is dumbfounding . He certainly did his homework before writing this novel . I would not be surprised if he actually traveled to Mars ! It was so realistic at points.My only complaint about this novel was that it was actually very slow reading . It took me almost twice as long to read a page than it normal does . Which meant this novel took some real time to finish . And I could only take it in smaller chunks 50 pages or so at a time.The characters in the novel are fantastic . They are all a little messed up . You spend a lot of time with a few of the first 100 the first 100 to travel to Mars . They all have their different take on what colonizing Mars should mean for them and the nations they represent or the planet they represent as they settle Mars . The political elements of this book were very fascinating . The business elements of this book talking about transnational businesses etc was confusing to me but I understand nothing about big companies . Somebody out there probably appreciates what I could not even fathom.Overall I thought this book was great but probably not for anyone who is not really interested in scifi or colonization . The technical side of it alone will slow the reading to a crawl but the ideas are entirely worth the time . I thought I might not be interested enough to read the other two in the trilogy but after finishing Red Mars I am ready to start Green Mars once I get through this list of course ! .Favorite quote Frank Chalmers made his way through them feeling their stares moving without thought toward them feeling their stares moving without thought toward the platform at the top of town and as he walked he said to himself Now we 'll see what I can do with this planet . Its not a great quote out of context but in the midst of the chapter it was amazing.Stars 4 out of 5.Final Word Transforming . ",3
"Nominally a futurehistory of Martian colonization Red Mars covers the initial 100 Martian colonists the influx of workers as corporations attempt to exploit the planet 's resources and the consequences as conditions worsen . The book is divided into eight parts each telling the story from the point of view of one of six characters . Each character is interesting and three dimensional . The first Frank Chalmers is a stunning example a machiavellian sociopath who arranges the murder of his best friend . The book suggests early on that the characters are dysfunctional but most are not and Robinson describes each personality in a way that 's easy to relate to . Most readers will see some of themselves in every character and will be moved when many disappear from the story as events unfurl.Robinson 's prose is easy to read and descriptive . He lovingly describes the Martian landscape and the events that change the planet . He explains the processes and technologies being used to make the planet more habitable . Mars and its future is viewed through different cultures and ideologies . And Robinson describes political and social systems evolving growing and collapsing the only challenges the colonists seem unable to solve are those that can not be fixed technologically . The ending is dramatic and cheesy last line notwithstanding overwhelming.A word about the politics Several reviewers have trouble understanding the concept of sympathetic characters not representing the author . Nobody argues that through Chalmers Robinson is advocating murder so why assume that characters portrayed as idealistic hotheads advocating an enlightened Utopia not communism are attempts to convert readers to Marxism ? Robinson 's prediction of a near future where a handful of democratically unaccountable transnational corporations wield more power than governments is neither unreasonable nor extremist propaganda nor unique nor is it that people sick of these conditions might reject them for something Utopian and might make up a sizable proportion of those wanting to leave Earth . Robinson is describing what might happen and why rather than pushing a particular ideology . It is notable that the consequences of the actions of most of the first 100 are hardly positive why would an author promote a vision of an enlightened Utopia by having for it such divided belligerent builders ? If Red Mars has faults they are that it is fairly humourless and some of the science nothing fortunately important to the principle of convincing the reader that colonization is possible is somewhat stretched.There are no rayguns or bugeyed aliens there is much to think about . If you 're looking for an airport novel go read L. Ron Hubbard . If you can watch CNN talking 23 hours a day about scandals effecting minor Democrats and still grumble Darned liberal bias you may be too rightwing to cope with fictional characters disagreeing with you go read some Doc Smith or something instead . Otherwise the reader needs patience and a willingness to get inside a whole range of radically different characters . Most of the book is interesting but the climax is especially so.Posing more problems than answers Red Mars leaves the reader uneasy about humanity 's progress with a mix of optimism about what we can do and pessimism for what we are likely to do it portrays characters the reader can feel for and a planet to fall in love with . What a wonderful book . ",4
"The first 100 colonists on Mars were crazy enough to want to leave Earth forever and smart enough to fool the psychological tests for the Mars mission . Neither they nor the patchwork consortium of world powers who sent them could agree why they were there or what they wanted from Mars . To Phyllis Mars was a geological treasuretrove for commercial usage . To Ann Mars was a museum of geology to be preserved as much as possible in its natural state . To Sax it was a laboratory for bioengineering experimentation to Arkady a laboratory for social reform . To Nadia it was the supreme test of her genius for coldweather engineering . To John Boone the group 's charismatic figurehead it was the sum of what everyone else wanted it to be he just wanted the First 100 to stand united . No one knew what Frank Chalmers wanted but whatever it was John Boone stood in his way.Most fans of Red Mars rave about its scientific realism but I 've never cared one way or another about the technicalities of speculating plausible future technologies . Instead I recommend this book for its broad epic vision its believably complex political situation and its portrayal of strong but flawed characters confronting difficult situations with ingenuity hope and courage . I particularly like the way Robinson explores the complex relationship between John Boone the First Man on Mars and his fame between a human being & amp the legend that arose in his wake . The book is n't perfect some things the author seemed to be setting up do n't pay off and I could have done without having the most obnoxious character incessantly identified as a Christian but it 's an absorbing memorable adventure . ",3
"Do n't be confused by all the technical jargon and socialpolitical commentary this one has all the outrageously fantastic scientific aspects of Star Trek or Star Wars ! Robotsmachines that can build just about everything for you ? Dropping a whole moon on a planet and everyone does n't die ? Regularly scheduled frequent runs between Earth and Mars in only twenty years after first landing ? A million immigrants to Mars after thiry years ? Come on ! This is pure opera ! And long winded in the best tradition of opera at that.I do have to agree with some other reviews the First One Hundred as characters did not change or learn much and some of the ones that did manage to learn something were punished for their growth with death . Made it difficult to care for them . But then they reminded me of some driven individuals I have encountered in life . Childish and backward in many ways and yet so very brilliant and charismatic in others . However I was pleased that at least my favorite the eminently practical Siberian construction specialist did indeed survive this book.I would n't recommend this book to a novice Science Fiction reader heavy going indeed . But it certainly raises interesting and relevant points about the ethics and practicalities of expoliting other worlds . And challenges us to examine the way we live today . It 's not just about the colonization of Mars . Which is the best kind of science fiction to be found . ",2
"A talented and praised writer he may well be but Kim is not up there with the greats of Science Fiction . He has an enviable ability to understand geology or even the current ideas about reaching Mars and forming a colony . However it fast becomes background noise to the farcical political fantasy that populates Mars with nearly every ethnic group who are mostly viewed as quaint at best . There are many rocks and foreigners who behave like rocks Dune on Mars this is not.Characters there are in plenty but must we endure their every identical step taken across Mars ? A long journey into the heart of a geological dictionary does not make for great Science Fiction . Yes its clever at times but too often it pulled my attention away from the larger narrative.Red Mars has its moments of beautiful prose . A frustrating book by a talented author who needed a strict editor . ",1
"This series I read all of them was good and is truly as A.C. Clarke said The best book on the colonization of mark that has ever been.That being said come on ! There was a lot of crap in these books . Elusive characters that each have one big fat character trait Maya is angry and flighty Frank is petty and scheming blahblahblah Jackie is scheming . Little quips about Japanese like throwing shigata ga nai all the time I live in Japan and speak Japanese and cringe whenever a write has his characters speaking Japanese because it 's the future . Are you listening Gentry Lee ? ? ? . Way too much detail about the terraforming bit of it and for all tha it was not believable that gene therapy that allows people to live in high CO2 environments was just SO convenient.What this series does best strangely is paint a reasonable interesting picture of what Earth would be like in the future with multinat corporations and what not . Also the best description of how robot factories and space elevators might work that was interesing.All in all this work would have been far better as one 600 page book instead of three 500 page books . That would have been just golden . ",1
"Robinson 's Red Mars is a comprehensive and complete book on man 's colonization of Mars . It is full of scientific political and economic consequences of human settlement on Mars and arguments from both sides are presented in detail through the opposing perspectives of different characters within the book . In addition the book is full of symbolism such as the elevator that is built only to be pulled down by the hands of the revolution destroying much of the Martian surface and dispersing humans in a manner that made me think of the Tower of Babel.The story begins on a spaceship of the first hundred people that are off to begin life on Mars . All of them are scientists which of course makes for a less than complete representation of human kind although full of intellectualism and nutty personalities . The mission is meant to be representative of the world 's nationalities dominated by American and Russian teams . Each group of scientists have their own tasks whether it is flying the space craft cultivating food construction once on Mars ecologists to study Mars terraformers biologists physicists and even a psychologist.The 8 month journey to Mars is enough to drive some people crazy and Maya the Russian leader thinks that she is hallucinating when she unwittingly spots a man whom she does not know onboard the spacecraft . People develop relationships and hatreds and their true personalities start to come out after hiding most of their peculiarities from the selection committee to be able to go to Mars.Robinson follows different characters for each part of the book and this makes it a more interesting and indepth read as we get different viewpoints on how the people see Mars and what they want from the planet . Some like Ann oppose its terraforming whilst others such as Sax can think of nothing but . Hiroko suddenly disappears with a small group of the first hundred and noone can find them . John and Frank hit heads about how the planet should be run and one day John is murdered a shock to everyone.Politics starts to play an important role as the first hundred decide they will do whatever they want on Mars rather than be controlled by Earth . They are free . Only they really are n't . Before they know it waves of immigrants from Earth sponsored by transnational corporations begin to live on the planet . But Mars is not its own nation and does not have a cohesive political or police structure . Problems quickly rise to a peak and the first hundred realise they are no longer in control.A revolution begins and is chaotic and uncontrollable . Infrastructure collapses as it is sabotaged . Finally Nadia the engineer after finding out that her lover Arkady who began the revolution has been killed by it decides that enough is enough and she blows up Phobos in an attempt to stop Earth and transnational control and interference . The first hundred realise that they will be seen as ringleaders of the revolution and that they must escape will they be rescued by Hiroko 's detachment ? The book is so complete and full of facts that it is a must for anyone with a passion for Mars and science . It is also a must for those that would think to colonize Mars in the future as a guide of how not to do it.A very realistic perspective well thought out and a foresight of consequences that gives me goose bumps . ",4
"Robinson achieves a pitch perfect balance of real science and fiction in Red Mars . The story of the 100 colonists is gripping . From John Boone the legend Coyote the mysterious stowaway and the computerlike Sax Russell there are characters in this read that you will not forget . The Drama is first class and keeps you coming back for more in the following two books . The revolution that occurs is really well written . After reading this book you will not look into the nighttime sky the same ever again . Red Mars may very well be a novel that is prophetic in its depiction of the future . I also highly recomend some music to accompany the reading for some good sugestions read the next review ! Enjoy ! ",4
"An excellent trilogy . Hardbounds were an upgrade from the paperbacks on my shelf . Quality and service were excellent . Would order from the company again . ",4
"And They did land on Mars and make themselves shelter and food . And they did study and learn and shape this new world to thier will . And it was good.This book is rich in imagery science personality and realism . I was so thoroughly pulled in by this book that I read the entire trillogy straight through on the momentum of this first book . This is the best of the series I belive but the other two books are still worth it to complete this epic tale . They start in Antartica during training and final selection of the first hundred to land on mars and build a rich tapestry to start this trillogy from.The Charachters are full of personality and realism the setting richly described and you 'll find yourself pulled to Mars and dreaming of the day when we really will land there and set up a colony and eventually a new nation . ",4
"This is a wonderful book . It gives a clear picture of Mars and what would be involved in terraforming a planet . It also points out the political issues that would arise when something is held jointly by Earth inhabitants . ",4
"I have no idea why I chose to read this book . I do n't typically read science fiction of any type . However I began reading and to my dismay I could n't put it down . Certainly the book is laced with science jargon and science facts and I had to reread a passage or two in order to attempt an understanding of the science but This book features a strong cast of characters good guys and bad . I think Robinson does an outstanding job of introducing us to his characters and we get a real sense of who each person is and what motivates them . It 's a real study in both science and sociology and I just LOVED it ! ",4
"KSR is an excellent technical writer . Some of the plot elements could use a bit of work but if you accept that the planet itself is the star of the book and the fight to terraform it you will not be disappointed . Have actually read this many times ",4
"Robinson attempts a grand and bold vision in his book Red Mars . He melds hard science with the politics and conniving brinkmanship and differing visions of the settlers . The description of the myriad ways in which the settlers attempt to terraform Mars is very interesting but Robinson does n't quite pull off the human elementsthe various and contradictory motives of the various and growing groups on Mars and their plans and plots . A lot of this part of the book devolves into speechmaking by the characters in the story and it makes the book rather boring especially in the middle of the book . Robinson ca n't quite pull of what Frank Herbert and Ursula K. LeGuin did so masterfully in Dune and The Left Hand of Darkness respectfully that is to immerse the reader not only in a future scenario but a political human scenario played out against a science fiction backdrop.Still this is a fairly good read and I recommend it if only for the vision of what terraforming Mars might look like . ",3
"Red Mars was mildly compelling if not exactly riveting . I honestly expected more after all the awards and recommendations by friends . Considering its minimal character development and dry documentary style I expected more detailed and descriptive worldbuilding . While some claim this is a scienceheavy tome I found the descriptions of the tech fairly slim . Another thing that struck me is how such a devastated earth had an endless supply of both resolve and money for the Mars colonizers . On top of that all of that tech seemed to work flawlessly for the most part which is very hard to swallow . Also not sure why it bugged me but the speed at which the early colonists could move around the planet seemed quite improbable . There was also a fairly ginormous coincidence where a notable character they were searching for was found seemingly at random from among tens of thousands of colonists.Upshot is I felt obligated to finish it and might even read the next couple in series but it felt like more of a task at times than a pleasure though I admit I was hooked in just enough to keep going . ",2
"As always this author does a great job of storytelling and character development . The pace of the story is just a little slow in places but overall well done . Obviously Kim Stanley Robinson has done extensive research on Mars the geography details enhance the storytelling . A good read during the Minnesota winter . ",4
"From the very beginning I knew I would not enjoy this book . I only read a couple of chapters and put it down . ",0
"I 'm about half way through Red Mars so this can be only a partial reivew . That said I find this book compelling sophisiticated thoughtful and erudite . The author seems to know a great deal about science not just the basic chemistry and physics you expect in SciFi authors but a truly comprehensive grasp of geology . Yet Red Mars is not really about science It 's about people politics development and power . A master of character Robinson does not lack for the descriptive skills of an almost poetic jouranalist but keeps the story moving with the dramatic tensions arising between characters that changre and eveolve even as the great Mars settlement experience grows and evolves . In short one of the bestwritten books I 've read in years I 'm hardpressed to name its equal . ",4
"Should be read by all policy makers economists sociologists psychologists and futurists . To read this book is to understand why Arthur C. Clarke made the recommendation he did . ",4
"I am just aghast at the number of nonfivestar ratings this book has received . The answer probably likes in the sophistication of the particular reviewers who are underrating this masterpiece . I do n't want to make this sound arrogant or patronizing but the great thing about the Internet and Amazon reviewing is that anyone can review while the awful thing about the Internet is that anyone can review . I 'm not sure what else one could want out of a Scifi novel than what you find here . My guess is that those who dislike it tend to prefer space opera or pure adventure books . But if you have any capacity to read good literature this novel will almost undoubtedly knock your socks off.RED MARS has been almost universally praised by Scifi writers and academics as one of the finest hard science Scifi novels in recent decades . Partly as a result of the influence of Philip K. Dick my favorite Scifi writer but someone who was almost completely uninterested in the science in Scifi but instead focused on metaphysical dilemmas STAR TREK and STAR WARS Scifi has been less and less focused on science in the past few decades and instead has been more concerned with exploring questions like what is real ? or adventure stories . Time was when the most denigrated form of Scifi was the space opera . Robinson 's Mars Trilogy is the triumphant return of hard science in novelistic form . But RED MARS is far more than that . It is as political as it is scientific . I can imagine that a few of the people giving the novel low marks are troubled by Robinson 's politics which are further to the left than any prominent politician in America today . It is n't an accident that many Marxist writers including Fredric Jameson who Robinson thanks in the Acknowledgments love Robinson 's dystopian take on role of capitalism in forming the world we live in either on earth as in his Pacific trilogy or on new worlds as here in the Mars books . If you are a big fan of an unbridled free market capitalism which by its very nature is utopian in that it continually describes a world that does n't exist but insists could if only we would free the market from all political and social restraint then this is n't a novel that will warm the laissezfaire cockles of your heart . This is capitalism as rapacious inhuman and imperialistic.I find the epic sweep of Robinson 's vision to be almost overwhelming . He balances almost perfectly scientific political social and narrative concerns . His characters are both many and richly drawn . His Mars exists in a way that only rarely do Scifi writers make possible . I ca n't point to many writers who have made their imaginary world so tangible and believable . I do n't have the scientific expertise to address the plausibility of the many terraforming and climate altering techniques and tactics addressed in the novels but I never found anything in the book to be absurd or silly.I loved the various components making up this book . And the characters are more developed and vivid than in most Scifi novels . While John Boone never really emerged for me as a believable character many of the others like Frank Maya Nadia the irrepressible Arkady Ann Sax and many others did . Thanks to gene therapy that helps extend life by renewing the genetic structure of the body many though not all of these characters make it into GREEN MARS or even into BLUE MARS . The trilogy itself extends over several decades . I can recommend few works of fiction as highly as I recommend this . But if you are looking for a great yarn rather than a great novel look elsewhere . This probably is n't for you . But if you are instead looking for a truly great novel for a trilogy that might represent the apex of Scifi writing of the past twenty years do yourself a favor and read not just RED MARS but the two other novels in the trilogy as well . ",4
"I just finished reading Red Mars and was so disappointed . This book had so much potential going into it but in short the characters suck . The main characters in Red Mars are all part of the first 100 people to colonize Mars . You do n't get to meet all 100 of them thank god but out of the ones you do meet there is not one of them that is likeable . This lack of any characters to get attached to or even like a little makes reading Red Mars a painful experience . There are some good ideas about Mars the technology to live there and ways to terraform it all presented from characters that are just not enjoyable . ",0
"This classic is more about relationships than the development of Mars . Way too much soap opera for me . I just could not get into it . About half way through I found myself increasingly skipping pages to finish the book . ",1
"I have almost nothing but good things to say about this entire series . This book kept me on the edge of my couch the entire time ! I 'm kind of nerdy so all of the technical details really added to the richness of the picture for me . This shot straight to the top of my favorites.The ideas covered in this were also very mindexpanding . I do have to say I wish there was more time given to any kind of gayness or a gay struggle in this . Women enjoyed great status however . I liked that . ",4
"100 colonists dubbed The First Hundred are in a ship called Ares on the way to Mars at the beginning of this epic novel . If I told you anything else it would ruin something.This book is just about the best novel I 've ever read . It is the most realistic novel written about the colonization of Mars and there really have been a great many about that subject . The science and politics are believable and the characters are developed to a level that I have not seen since the some of the great American classics.This book is truly a pillar in science fiction writing and is an incredible start to the series . I read it in two sittings which for a 700+ page book is really a feat . If you like Robinson and are interested in Mars this book is a MUST read.If you are concerned why others did not rank the book so highly it is probably because they might have been expecting more action or the highly descriptive paragraphs about the Martian landscape science and technology and characters used in the novel bored them . If you do not find these things interesting then the book might not be a 5 star it might be a 4 staror a 3 star if you just want some light reading but I believe that these attributes add to the depth of the novel and its overall quality . It is not a light read or actionpacked like Dune but it does n't have to be . It 's just an incredible book . ",4
"This novel fails to impart that sense of wonder that I look for in a science fiction novel . Additionally the writing is poor . The author always manages to tell in three pages what three sentences might do as well . The book is tedious . The characters are not lifelike . They do not behave like real people . To be honest I found the book to be a bore . To ensure that I was being fair I read this novel twice just to make certain that I was n't missing something . No change.This novel the first of an overlong Mars Trilogy deals with the initial colonization of Mars by an international group . Unfortunately the characters simply do not ring true . There is little if any plot.In addition to being poorlywritten with bloated prose Red Mars also features a massive dose of Political Correctness . All forceful dominant characters are women . Men do as they are told . Must have been something in the Martion air ? I am all for equality but people just do n't act like the characters in this book . You can have equality without the characters seeming unreal.I honestly do n't know what the fuss was about as regards this novel . I thought it was barely good enough to finish.As I have said elsewhere someone still needs to write a good and realistic novel about man 's colonization of Mars . This book is a clean miss . ",1
"Red Mars is the best contemporary straightscience fiction novel I 've read . As far as plot structure and style go I do n't have enough space to praise Robinson . It 's an EPIC in capital letters . Granted he is often a bit long winded but most of the time Red Mars is a page turner with substance . His introductory vignetts at the beginning of each section of the book in particular demonstrate his literary muscle . You 'll be sold after the first three pages ! The story is excellent but as or more impressive is Robinson 's portrait of the socioeconomiccultural conditions which develop on the planet . Coming from the rather arrogant postmodernistic attitude of we 've invented everything that can be invented insofar as culture politics etc . is concerned this book is a refreshing surprise . From the environmental Marsfirst movement to the Neomarxism the world Robinson has created is rich and interesting.His characterization is even better . Normally I would resent the obvious plot device longjevity sp ? Robinson uses to allow his characters to live through Mars ' entire evolution . However his characters are so different and engaging that I was easily able to grant him that crutch.Finally Red Mars also has convincing at least for a lay person like myself science . Their scientific gadgets which allow them to make Mars more Earthlike are giddily exotic while staying real enough that I would n't be surprised to read about them in the morning paper.Ultimately Red Mars accels at characterization story style scope and science stuff . It 's simply magnificent . Sorry for the bad pun in the title . ",4
"The first book in a sprawling epic about the colonization of Mars . I found it highly enjoyable for the most part but it does have it 's flaws . Robinson has a tendency to kind of become infatuated with his characters and he keeps them around for a long while . They kind of live in their own heads come into frequent conflicts with each other and some of their character flaws become really drawn out . Some of the characters are really hard to like . If you can get past this there is an excellent story about space exploration here . Also Robinson is also clearly in love with Mars . If you are as well you will really grok the series but pages long descriptions of regolith and craters and canyons might become repetitive to some . I often found myself skipping paragraphs or even whole pages to get back to the metaplot . You can do that without really missing much at times.For those with patience and a fascination with the Fourth Planet you will enjoy this novel of Martian colonization and terraforming . ",3
"PROS Realism distinct characters.CONS Slowmoving too political unlikable characters repetitive descriptions.BOTTOM LINE I was looking for a Sense of Wonder and was left with a Sense of What For ? How was I to know that it was a book about politics economics and sociology disguised as Science Fiction ? I had hope for the book in the beginning . I really enjoyed The Voyage Out and the character development even though for me the characters were not very likable . When they got to Mars the book seemed to slow way down . The same features of Mars are explained over and over again . The author only has to tell me once that the sandcliffmountainskyterrain is redrustorangecrimsonbrowntanI get it already ! I do agree with other reviewers who say that 150200 pages of describing Mars could have been left out to make a much more enjoyable book.The parts about the colonization were technically interesting but overpowered with political issues not a favorite SciFi topic of mine . While I think the events were a realistic expectation for people under such a situation it just makes for very dry reading . And after all I 'm reading fiction for its entertainment value not for it 's educational value . ",1
"I like the ideas . I like the characters . But did I mention that it was really long ? I think that if you really studied this book you could create an entire 3 dimensional model of mars . Mr. Robinson describes nearly every peeble and crevise on the planet as if he spent 16 years there wandering the barren wastes.The bottom line is clip 200 pages of scenery description out and it would get 4 stars . I would have never finished this book if I was reading it in book form . I did it on tape and it took me about 3 weeks . ",2
"so I started reading this book . About a third of the way through my doctor prescribed clonazepam and I no longer needed the book . Honestly I ca n't see how anyone could get through this book without already suffering from insomnia as badly as I was . It is the most boring book I have ever read and I could only force myself because it was the middle of the night there was nothing to do and I had mistakenly bought it.I am a fan of hard science fiction and that is what this book purports to be . But hardSF needs to be speculative and push boundaries . This does n't . An analogy might explain in the 19th century cantilever bridge building might have been seen as cutting edge technology . Imagine someone writing cantilever bridge fiction . The science aspect of it would be completely uninteresting . It would be a story about the politics and economics of getting the bridge built . Well this book is about that interesting . It 's a collection of uninteresting unealistic characters involved in endless contrived office politics trying to get some uninteresting science and engineering done . It just so happens that it 's on Mars but most of it is far less interesting than bridge building . I 'm not exaggerating . We have to read about how concrete foundations were laid how bricks were manufactured and have to suffer detailed geological surveys of the areas the characters visit.If your preferred genre is boring books try Report on Probability A by Aldiss . I used to think it was the most boring book on earth but at least it was short and turned boredom into an art form worth rereading . Read Mars is boredom without purpose . Your time would be better spent actualy reading some real science about Mars.Addendum Jan 1994Well I did eventually finish this book even tyhough I thought I 'd given up . Some things do happen later in the book . The characters remain supremely uninteresting and there are still no original ideas . But there is some entertaining large scale destruction if you like that sort of thing . So I bumped the rating up to 2 stars . ",1
"I purchased this book because it won a Nebula award.With all due respect to Mr. Robinson this book is dull . It is a mindnumbingly dull read because of the endless exposition . It just goes on and on and on and it takes forever for anything to happen.You 'll either love this book or hate it . I did n't like it and I opted not to read the sequels . ",0
"Robinson is an excellent writer and this is an excellent trilogy but the emphasis is on science . Those looking for lightreading action fantasy should look elsewhere . On the other hand if you love science fiction with meat to it and you find Mars fascinating these are the books for you.Asimov Heinlein Clarkeno other science fiction author has ever put so much real science into his writing and that 's only half the appeal . To get the full experience allow yourself the time to follow the musings and personal journeys of Robinson 's characters as well as the main plot . Robinson 's books are better savored than read . ",3
"Warning ! These books are hypnotically attractive . The cover art is outstanding excellent artwork for each red motif for RED MARS green motif for GREEN MARS blue motif for BLUE MARS . At least BLUE MARS was a bestseller and all three won prestigious awards . RED MARS won a Nebula for best novel and GREEN MARS and BLUE MARS each won a Hugo for best novel . It is tempting to buy the whole set which I did.And which I regret.The books have good parts but you can get good parts in other books without having to wade through sludge . If you want to teach readers about Mars write a book of nonfiction . If you want to write a story and take readers to places that can not be reached in reality then write fiction that is easy to read.These books have too much detail . The author elaborates too much . Many long paragraphs are tedious . Here is one from RED MARSNow she could wander in the dim ruby light of sunset her old jazz collection piped from the habitat stereo into her helmet headphones as she rooted in supply boxes and picked out any tool she wanted . She would carry them back to a small room she had commandeered in one of the storage warehouses whistling along with King Oliver 's Creole Jazz Band adding to a collection that included among other items an Allen wrench set some pliers a power drill several clamps some hacksaws an impactwrench set a brace of coldtolerant bungie cords assorted files and rasps and planes a crescentwrench set a crimper five hammers some hemostats three hydraulic jacks a bellows several sets of screwdrivers drills and bits a portable compressed gas cylinder a box of plastic explosives and shape charges a tape measure a giant Swiss Army knife tin snips tongs tweezers three vises a wire stripper Xacto knives a pick a bunch of mallets a nut driver set hose clamps a set of end mills a set of jeweler 's screwdrivers a magnifying glass all kinds of tape a plumber 's bob and ream a sewing kit scissors sieves a lathe levels of all sizes longnosed pliers visegrip pliers a tapanddie set three shovels a compressor a generator a weldingandcut set a wheelbarrowand so on.This is the worst paragraph I could find but it should help you to understand what I mean when I say these books are not easy to read . ",0
"I found Red Mars to be a rather interesting book on the colonization on Mars . The descriptions in the book are pretty detailed to be honest a couple of times a got a bit bored and this adds to the general realism of the book . Personaly I found the scientific details of the book quite interesting maybe one of its strongest points the characters pretty detailed and most of the time quite believable and the plot rather interesting . As another reader said the book is definitely successful as a thought experiment I believe this expresses in the most accurate way my impression from Red Mars as well as the other books in the series . In any case reading this book made me curious enough to continue with the next books on the series Green Mars Blue Mars . ",4
"I love science fiction and I was excited they offered a few different books for free for the Kindle . I was interested in finding some new authors to readI will not be reading this one again.I did n't finish the entire book which is rare for me . I 'm an avid reader and I can read quickly this book was like quicksand . The deeper I got into the book the more I wanted out . I could n't finish the book bc it was so freaking boring . I 've read a lot of science fiction and am tolerant of very descriptive passages but I kept on thinking this would of been better as a movie rather than a book and that is a first for me . The author gets so completely weighed down in his descriptions images would of sufficed ! Wtfwhere was the editor on this one ? I really dislike rating a book poorly bc I realize that enjoying a book is largely subjective but I could not stand this one . ",0
"I 'm only on Red Mars so far but I do very much like how it seems as though the author has done his homework . Most of the science in it seems pretty solid and although it 's definitely slower paced than what I normally read and quite a bit bogged down in the human interaction stuff relationships whatever I am enjoying it . ",3
"1 The characters and how they relate . Especially Ann and Sax the polar opposite nerds the long story between them and the larger story analogous to theirs.2 The constant details of geography and botany . Much of the book is about by constantly showing place detail perceiving in detail and how perceiving in detail relates to passions about places and people.3 Time change and the present . A group of the main characters survive through the centuryandahalf of revolutions career shifts serial homesickness population explosion and family attrition memory loss and partial rejuvenation . But there is always a sense of being with people plunked in a live present facing a long haul.4 The economics . Simply incoherent . For one long chapter the idyll amongst the insane new age megacorp surferexecs torturously so . Otherwise you can forgive characters having had ideas and space and like minds to try them with finding diverse successes.5 The politics . Both heroic in the greatest realistic contentious hopeful longstruggling way and heartbreakingly idiotic in others.6 The science . Lots serious and yet it 's bolted to the planet the solar system and the story . This is not a technical thriller nor a scienceconceptturningpoint story nor a terraforming intensive . Science and tech are just large modern vital organs here see point 2 . It 's mainly life that goes on and scitech as in real life is integral to all that getting along and change and uncertainty and it 's neither really subordinate to the story nor the point of the story . Which in terms of core SF values and approach is a hellova thing.So there 's lots to withstand but it 's absolutely worth it . For so absorbing a story he manages to end it without that shock of emptiness one is left to carry on live and change things after all that 's what your friends are up to on the last page . ",4
"I have yet to fully read Green Mars or Blue Mars but I am in the process of doing so now . Speaking of those two books you definitely need to get them as this book is n't able to stand on it 's own without the follow ups . I would like to say that there were quite alot of good ideas in this book . The whole terraforming of Mars is the focal point but also the ideas of revolution are n't far fetched . After all the same thing happened with colonies over here due to differing ideologies and the length of time it took to cross the Atlantic.There are two main drawbacks to this book that are pretty big . First off is the pace . It can be agonizingly slow almost throughout the entire book . There was only one or two parts the book is n't divided in to chapters per se were I was n't struggling to stay awake . If you need something to help you get to sleep at night read a section or two of this book . It 'll do the trick . As some other reviewers have noted a good 100 to 200 pages could have been edited out of this book and that would have helped immensely . Robinson will describe a scene in 50 pages that could easily be half that or less.My other qualm with this novel is Robinson 's grasp on medical ideas . I fully believe that human life spans will continue to lengthen even in my own lifetime . However I do n't think a miracle cure to automatically fix all of your body 's problems will ever exist . That 's just too far fetched for me . Furthermore do you honestly think some scientist out on Mars with limited resources would design said drug ? I wanted this book to be good I really did . I 'd have to say it 's worth a read once but it 's not a page turner by any stretch of the imagination . Most people probably wo n't have the patience to persevere through it honestly . ",1
"Here 's an incredibly realistic account of the terraforming areoforming ? of Mars in the mid 21st century . Written in the early 90 's the details may be outdated by recent Rover and other explorations but the vivid sense of place amid the weird geology of the red planet makes this first of a trilogy continue to spark thoughts days and weeks after reading it . I used the National Geographic maps of Mars as a reading aide but found that I started thinking of Mars in terms of Robinsons books and not just as a fictional construct.Like all great science fiction the hard science is matched by the explorations into human existence in this case following the attempts by many of the 'first hundred ' Martian settlers to opt out of the cycle of capitalism and global exploitation that at the time of the books sees the earth searching desperately for resources off planet . Various forms of anarchism and communalism are attempted with various results hampered always by interference from the global transnationals that run earth . ",4
"As I write this the Space Shuttle just launched after being delayed for a month with technical glitches this in 2009 . It 's still a hold your breath event whenever that marvel of space technology takes to the sky . After two tragic crashes no one can take for granted that the shuttle will go and return safely.Why then does the author think that in the year of 2026 a mere 17 years from now we 'll be capable of putting 100 people on space craft and deliver them safely to Mars ! This is the first thing that struck me about this story totally implausible . And that 's before we get into the whole idea of making machines from sand who then in turn can make other machines who make other machines who then make every conceivable material thing a crew of 100 and then 1000 's could possibly want in outer space . Never mind the dense planetary descriptions and technical psychobabble the author uses to coverup these wild leaps of faith . Oh and did I mention they figured out how to stop aging even turn the hands of time backward ! That 's right these people are still screwing each other at 100 years old . Something I do n't really want to think about frankly.Finally factor in the most boring characters and virtually no information of what motivates them well someone else said it well . This journey is a three book trilogy but I 'm getting off here . The only saving grace for me is that I downloaded this to my new Kindle2 for a cost of $ 0.00 so all I lost was my time . ",0
"Red Mars is good old fashioned hard science fiction where the author takes his science seriously and crafts a story that is a perfectly plausible extrapolation of currentday technology . It is also well informed and rich in depth on the political social and psychological levels . And not least it is a great epic story of exploration conflict love and loss.The story begins with the launching of the ship carrying the first permanent colonists to Mars . They are 100 scientists engineers and specialists mostly Americans and Russians under United Nations jurisdiction . Even before they arrive they have split into camps over the issue of whether and how aggressively they should attempt to modify the climate of their new home to make it more agreeable to human habitation . Eventually the decision is taken out of their hands as the multinational corporationsthe true villains of the novelrush aggressively into the fullscale exploitation of the mineralrich planet . As more colonists are rushed to the scene and living conditions deteriorate a crisis looms.One of the strengths of the novel is the way the author tells the story from the perspective of different characters in each case illuminating the situation according to that character 's specialty or personality . Each chapter has its own protagonist reflecting the focus of events at that time e.g . scientific technical political social or interpersonal . Some readers may not care for the absence of a central sympathetic figure but I think it is what make a novel of this scope move and inform as well as it does.Red Mars is the first of a trilogy continuing with Green Mars and Blue Mars . ",4
"Robinson gets the science fairly right in this plodding scifi series but the story he tells is largely unmoving and the characters themselves tend to the cardboard cutouts that are the bane of decent science fiction . The terraforming Mars idea has been done many times and often better . This one however is longer.The best part of the series is the specifics of the science especially in this first book . I agree with others that Robinson seems to run out of decent ideas in his sequels often killing off characters including some of the most interesting ones for seemingly no purpose . Also there is also a whole semiimmortality thing going on that eventually grows tiresome.BTW having recently read The Martian Chronicles by Ray Bradbury I found that to be a far more meaningful work even though the science itself was preposterous . Bradbury 's stories have far more human truth and are far more literary than Red Mars and others of its ilk . And they come in at several hundred fewer pages . ",2
"I was really looking forward to this book . I was at a book store one day and for some reason Red Mars just popped out perhaps I was already judging this book by its cover . When I brought it home I was pleasantly surprised to see it on the list I have of must read scifi so I could n't wait to dig in.Red Mars is a book that details the colonization and terraformation of Mars and the politics that surround that . Some characters believe we should terraform Mars and others believe we should leave the red planet alone.Initially this book had me hooked however I was curious as to why the author chose to include such a massive spoiler in the very first chapter and then go back decades in time . I recommend that if you decide to try this book out that you skip the very first chapter and read it later . The only purpose it serves is to spoil one of the biggest events in the book . I suppose the author included it for an initial hook but it 's not worth spoiling such an event just for a hook.The problem is that after the first couple hundred pages this book really becomes a chore to read . The landscape descriptions were interesting at first but over time you just want to read he drove by a crater not 3 pages detailing the event . The politics were interesting at first but over time I just did n't care anymore perhaps it was because there were virtually no characters that I liked all that much.Here 's an example of the tedium there is one whole section of the book that is well over 120 pages and all it really boils down to is a character driving all around Mars thousands of kilometers at a time only to arrive at these destinations with a couple questions Do you know the coyote ? and Do you know the saboteurs ? . When the answer is No . he drives another thousand kilometers to ask another character the same questions . Of course this section being at least 120+ pages means it is chalk full of bore.It becomes quite clear that the author is only interested in is displaying how much knowledge he has of Mars . The plot elements are just contrived and boring . The characters never really develop . If the author did n't mention their aging then you would n't even know these characters were in their 60s70s towards the end sorry but reading about people in their 60s70s having sex is just well not a pretty scene.There are moments in the book that are exciting and I was hooked at the very beginning . After a few hundred pages I just started losing interest and by the end of the book I started struggling with each page I was so ready to be done with it . This is the closest I 've ever come to not finishing a book . A 5 star book makes me wish it never ends a 1 star book is garbage through and through for those reasons I give this book 2 stars because there were interesting moments but overall I had a hard time staying awake slogging through these pages . ",1
"RED MARS1993 contains a decent and plausible story about the first colonists sent to Mars in the year 2027 . One of the most believable aspects of the story is the use of Antartica for a trainingpractice base prior to the actual mission.Yet with 2006 hindsight there are a number of critical situations which do n't hold up well 13+ years later here are a few1 The year 2027 is overly optimistic for colonization of Mars mankind will be lucky to have even set foot on Mars by this date let alone attempt a hugely expensive colonization effort.2 The MARS colony spacecraft is made up of 48 boosted Shuttle upper stages this is never going to happen indeed at this point it is clear that the Space Shuttle wo n't fly more than a handful more missions and certainly Shuttle upper stages are n't going to be boosted and used for any reason this upper stage boosting idea seems to have been a pipe dream fantasy of some in the early 90 's and Robinson seems to have fallen in with this group.3 The original 100 member Colony team is made up of almost a 5050 mix of Americans vs. Russians realistically this colonization will likely be made sometime after 2050 by independent Chinese American or Indian efforts with lesser powers Russia Europe and likely Japan helping one or the other of these future superpowers.4 Later colonization participants include a large faction from the Muslim world again this is highly unlikely given the current political climate and a more enlightened view of the Muslim world.This book is part of a Mars Colonization trilogy and the last two books GREEN MARS1995 and BLUE MARS1997 won Hugo awards . ",2
"I hate to use a word that seems like a clich & eacute these days but Red Mars is an epic story.The ideas in Red Mars are big really big . Should Mars be terraformed so that it be more habitable ? Should we leave it alone and frozen in time to be studied ? Should the politicians on Earth be the ones to govern and rule settlements on another planet ? If given a blank slate what would a new society loo like ? What factors would shape it ? How will people deal with an influx of new people new cultures and new ideas ? Robinson tackles these issues by telling the colonization of Mars through several viewpoints from characters that run the full spectrum of ideas and motivations that shine a new and different perspective on the events that are shaping their world their new Martian society . The personal struggles and political turmoil that comes with building a new world can be a little overly dramatic at times and bog the reader down . In the end though I 'm glad that the characters do n't take a secondary role and are in fact the main forces shaping Mars for what it will become . Without the diversity of characters and viewpoints this would have been just another fantastical scifi romp on another planet . Thankfully it is so much more than that.The real meat of this book however are the descriptions of the alien landscape and science behind making Mars a place for human habitation . The descriptions will make you believe that you are seeing the sun setting on the polar dunes and looking down from the rim of Olympus Mons on the planet far below . You can practically hear it when a huge aquifer bursts and floods Valles Marineris with a roiling sea of ice and steaming water . It truly is a magnificent world that Robinson was able to build from the ground up . The technical details of their colonization and terraforming efforts are well thoughtout . Full of the small details of geology physics genetic engineering mechanical engineering ecology robotics and spaceflight exhibit the research and our level of knowledge of Mars at the time the book was originally published 1993 that Robinson managed to include not as after thought but as the main course . The detail was n't confined to the sciences of terraforming . Robinson is n't afraid to explore the softer sciences of psychology of isolation the economics of martian derived mining and the politics of multinational corporations . What was really impressive to me was that Robinson managed to do all this without every talking down to the reader . I appreciate it when an author allows the reader to think with them and not force feed the reader into a particular scenario the author has predetermined is the right course.Red Mars isn & # 8217t a perfect book but there is so much in it that is great it is certainly worth reading . ",3
"I was looking forward to reading this book . I really was . I love scifi and the idea of going to Mars has always fascinated me.So needless to say I was a bit disappointed to find that reading Red Mars was about as interesting as watching paint dry . No let me take that backwatching paint dry is more interesting.The book is two things a character study and a detailed painfully detailed description of Mars itself.As for the character study Different sections focus on a particular character and provide a view from inside that character 's head so to speak . The problem is that the characters are n't particularly interesting putting a damper on the whole notion of character study.As for a plot well there is n't much of one to speak of . Oh there 's a kind of overall direction of events but nothing that one would confuse for an actual plot heavans no.This must have been intentional and part of the artsyfartsy idea the writer had when conceiving this book as I know that just about every first year writing student understands the idea of plotting.Oh wellAlong with this we get page after page of lovingly detailed exposition on Mars itself.Now I find Mars fascinating . Just looking at the NASA lander pictures gives me chills . So trust me when I say that the reams of paper devoted to describing the planet gets gets old fast . You will get hundreds of pages describing just about every nook and cranny of Mars . I really ca n't imagine anyone finding this much detail interesting unless one is a gelologist nawI do n't think that I will continue on with the series at this point . ",1
"so surprised at the ratings for this book that i had to put my 2 cents in have read the trilogy 2x and will read it again at some point i know.it is a fairly difficult book as are all of kim stanley robinson 's books . i 've read them all . this is not easy reading . and no i am not so completely thrilled at knowing so much about rocks butred mars is in my top 10 books of ALL TIMES . yes i really love this book . i suggested it for my book club who are def not scifi readers at all and yet they all loved it.not a summer beach book . but the characters are real to me and the continuation of their lives in the next two books makes you feel like you 've had a special experience.just read it . you 'll see ",4
"Robinson 's novel is great particularly if you 're interested in how a colony on Mars might actually start . On the other hand if you are not quite as excited about knowing the science in detail you may want to consider reading something else . I was reminded a bit of Moby Dick in some spots those chapters describing 19th centry whale processing technology in excruciating detail were never my favorites . You 'll get a bit of that here too . But Robinson usually stops short of the nauseating level of detail.The characters were interesting and multifaceted . The shifting narrator perspectives were especially enjoyable.I 'm looking forward to reading Green and Blue . ",3
"A very fine hard SF novel my rating above should actually read 4 stars rather than only 3 . However I did follow one person 's astute recommendation that the brief Part I be read where it falls chronologically in the narrative which is after Part 5 and I 'm very glad I did . The editorial genius who probably convinced Robinson to move that part up front ought to be shot . It would have ruined the narrative momentum had I read it otherwise and such momentum is exactly what the book sometimes lacks with far too many long descriptions of slogging across the desert landscape . Also for such a realworld book the type for which authors are rewarded over the long term for reliably predicting nearfuture technological trends one objection I have to Robinson 's novel written in 1993 is that subsequent advances in computer networking and communications technologies are almost entirely absent . This is no small matter since the characters ' relative isolation from one another often drives the plot rather unbelievably in light of the Internetcellphone advances that followed not long after Robinson wrote . He also posits poorly explained advances in human longevity these appear suddenly halfway through the book and influence the plot thereafter significantly as well as somewhat for the worse . However it should be said that he deals with these treatments much better in the second book Green Mars . Overall though Robinson 's characters themselves are numerous and interesting and the politics of colonization he describes are fascinating and do indeed leave the impression that this is how it all could eventually play out . ",2
"Wayyyy too much technical detail cardboardish characters and no obvious plot . I get that this is part 1 of a trilogy all the mo0re reason that it should get you hooked . Nope . Just phenomenally boring boring boring details . Never seems to get to the point . Probably because there is n't one . 2 stars because it is n't the worst book I ever read just mostly bad . ",1
"This is the second time I 've read through the Martian series and I just love it . Very deep intricate and smart . Quite a few thought provoking ideas for when we do finally venture out into the universe . ",4
"Just plain bad.I struggled through more than half then I gave up . ",0
"This was one of the best space saga 's I 've read in a very long time ! Red Mars had me hook line and sinker ! Green Mars continued that and I could not wait to get to Blue Mars to see how this was going to end . I was very upset with Blue Mars though as this book had so much fluff that I felt the author wrote stuff just for the purpose of filling pages . That said I would still recommend this trilogy though to any science fiction fan . It 's almost a must read in my opinion . Well worth my time . ",4
"I read this book quite a few years ago . I could give you all my very detailed opinion of this book I loved it it would be easy but I would never do the book justice . Suffice to say the characters are marvelously drawn years later I still think about them and the plot marvelously intricate . I 've even gotten my mom and sister to read the Trilogy and they both loved it . What it all comes down to is you should buy it or borrow it if you must to get your hands on it and read it and the other two in the Trilogy & gt Green Mars & amp Blue Mars . You wo n't be disappointedand you certainly wo n't regret it . ",4
"I read this book years ago and forgot a lot of it but wrote down I liked the book . Years later I bought it and read it again.Arther C Clarke the late brilliant futurist visionary and Sci Fi genius wrote Red Mars by Kim Stanley Robinson is the best Sci Fi book written on Mars colonization . He should know read his Garden of Mars on Mars Terra Forming.Kim Stanley Robinson is fantastic with character development character talking and interaction . We see the gigantic ship Ares going to Mars with the first hundred colonists and experiencing a potential deadly solar flareradiation . Later we see the landing and also part of the crew transforming the moon Phobos into a Mars shuttlespaceport . Later we see the colonists teaming up and having romanticsexual relations . Later large buildingsroads and all the infrastructure are put in as well as exploring the different areas of Mars . Later against some of the colonists wishes Terran Forming starts and picks up speed . Then there is a revolution against Earth controlthousands killed on Mars . Phobos crashes into Mars . The elevator to asteroid Clarke crashes back into Mars kind of far fetched for me . First man on Mars assassinated . DNA repair treatment started on Mars . Man may live to a thousand years . maybe . Nuclear reactors sabotaged and melt downs causing gigantic floods from underground aquifers . Atmosphere getting denser and warmerslightly . Incredible action and fast paced . A fantastic brilliant book.Only part that slowed down the book and for me detracted from the book was the small part when Kim Robinson gets carried away explaining a Mars shrink theory and plans of social interaction . I was n't interest in the diagrams or the logic of it . To me it temporarily slowed down the book but after getting through this the book was great again . The elevator from Mars to asteroid Clarke was too improbable to me.I give Red Mars a 4 12 stars rating because of the Mars shrink slow down and the too improbable elevator to asteroid Clarke but will post a 5 star as the rest of the book was spectacular . I liked the book so much I bought Green Mars and Blue Mars in the same trilogy . Kim Stanley Robinson sure can write . Great Book . If you are interested in Mars colonization and Mars Terra Forming this IS the ultimate classic book for you . ",4
"This is not a triller by any stretch and soem readers might get turned off by the fact that this is to me a political and sociological study of what might happen if humans expanded to Mars . I found it interesting wellwritten and unlike any other sicfispace opera that i had read before . ",4
"Like many SciFi novels Red Mars has two stories to tell a story of science the terraforming and colonization of Mars and a story of people the adventures of the Mars colonists . The first story is fascinating and thoughtprovoking the second is uninteresting . Put them together and you have a really good book that could have been great . If like me you 're interested in seeing what the future might be like you 'll enjoy the book but if what you 're looking for is an interesting story look elsewhere . ",3
"This novel moved quite slowly for me . I got a bit thrown off by all the different narrators at first but then started to appreciate the different view points . ",2
"I read a lot of science fiction and typically enjoy books that work in good hardcore science be it real theoretical or fantastical . This book manages to come up with a few of each . There is a great deal devoted to the science of terraforming mars into human habitable environment and the process of human surviving in the harsh enviroment that exists today . Honestly though Robinson would have done better writing a nonfiction essay on Mars habitation than this poor effort at a fictional story.The characters and plot lines are blurry and disinteresting . Time takes decades long leaps with little warning and it became confusing and tedious.I had to force myself to finish it and there is little danger of my reading the next two books in the series or anything else from Robinson for that matter . ",1
"before you pick this book up there are some things you should know about itand about yourselffirst off if you are not the kind of scifi fan who likes in depth scientific stuffput this downyou will be bored out of your mind or find yourself skimming over things.if you like or at least mildly interested in biology earth science chemistry physics and just science in generalthen read onfor me this was one of the things that made the book enjoyable . i find a lot of scifi authors just gloss over the science aspects of their books . robinson takes the time to explain things sometimes in quite a lot of detail.about the book itself.the book details the colonization of mars from the start . the book begins in medius rexin the middle of things with the murder of one of the central charecters.after the murder you flash back to the beginning of the colinization from the trip out to the establishment of the settlementsthe main charecters are the 'first hundred ' the first 100 settlers to mars . there are a few other charecters who pop up all quite interesting that are not from the 100. each of the 8 segments of the book follows around one different charecter one of the 100 and their interactions with everything.the human aspects of this book are incredibly poignant and very touching . combining this with the time setting relatively near future20202060 this makes the charecters very believable.the major conflict comes in when additional emigrants begin making the sojourn to mars . initially they are simply more explorers and scientists who plan on staying on the planet for life . the trouble comes when transnational corporations think microsoft + aoltimewarner + general motors + general electric and you get the idea of the money and power behind them who have grown more powerful and wealthy than all but about ten countries start to send people up to mine for metals . the transnationals have approached mars as an untapped resource and will stop at nothing to get their way.over all this is one of the most well written books i have had the pleasure of reading in quite a while . ",4
"This book begins with a very inspiring and thought provoking speech by one of the most influential characters in the book John Boone . After reading it I thought I was in for a great read however from then on the book descends into a monotonous long winded story of some astronouts gradually growing old on Mars . Literally nothing happens for about 300 pages until some revolution occurs at the end of the book.Some of the things in the book that annoyed me the most wereThe fact that the majority of the people on Mars are potrayed as mindless followers that absolutely revere the old crusty first 100 colonists.Bedouins and Sufis on Mars ? Come on ! Get real ! If you are not an expert on space colonization you will have trouble grasping where the protagonists are are they inside or outside ? Technical names for equipment and habitations are used without being explained what is a mohole ? what is a walker ? what is a tent ? as it applies to space habitation ? ? The lack of imagination for place names underhill and Sheffield are a couple of examples of unimaginitive names for the new planet 's cities.The book had about 3 or 4 moments that I enjoyed but the rest of it was so boring ! ",1
"Kim Stanley Robinson 's RED MARS is a monumental work the beginning of a three book trilogy spanning well over 1500 pages . Robinson manages to elaborate on points from the most mundane issues of gossip affairs and body image towell the colonization of Mars . RED MARS is an important work and I think well grounded on the relationship between human beings and their place of dwelling . Mars is a living creature here and mankind manages to twist it in every way from our ideas objectification and the inevitable destruction at the hand of these conflicting views.This book is a must for any fan of hard sciencefiction . A passionate researched and thorough account of the theoretical colonization of Marswith the occasional lull of thirty to forty pages of terrain under its scientific name under scientific terms . ",3
"I found Red Mars to be a very slow read but surprisingly enjoyable . The story although bogged down with infinite technical detail most of which was n't properly explained was at its heart a story about people their hardships and triumphs their emotions and their conflicts with one another.I really disliked the overwhelming amount of technical detail . There was too much of itmost of the time it was hard to continue reading and I found myself wanting to skip ahead . I also found it hard to like many of the characters . I had a couple of favorites but that 's about it . I did n't care what happened to the rest at all . At times I found myself in awe of the way Robinson writes . He has a particular talent for describing things . Unfortunately it 's this same talent that often leads to long drawn out descriptions that I often found to be unnecessary.It 's clear that the plot was very well thought out from the beginning . The idea of colonizing Mars is brought to life in such vivid detail that 's it 's hard to come back to reality at times . The story line progressed nicely although the time frame was somewhat confusing for me . I was n't quite sure how many weeksmonthsyears had passed between chapters or even sections of the same chapter.Overall not a bad book and in fact I plan on reading Green Mars and Blue Mars down the road but after Red Mars some light reading is in order . ",2
"Red Mars goes someplace where few other Science Fiction novels go . No not to Mars . Red Mars takes readers on a journey with good character development politics believable conflicts and real science as opposed to the science in most Science Fiction which has little basis in reality.This is a hard Science Fiction novel . For those of you who thank that SciFi is cheesy monsters blaster guns aliens in flying saucers and technobabble understood only by 45 year old virgin geeks who go to conventions dressed up like Captain Kirk well time to read some hard SciFi and a good place to start would be with Red Mars . Admittedly there are some science concepts that may be above the head of a reader with NO concept of basic scientific terminology however this novel does n't go on at length about Quantum Theory so most people who have been through middle school science class should have no problem following along.More importantly than understanding science is understanding the varying political theories of the Martian colonists . When it is all boiled down this novel is more about politics than about science or a high tech future . Unlike most SciFi which tends to be played out in a far distant future wherein all society 's problems have been solved and people live in a practically utopian existence the world of Red Mars is the world of the not to distant future in which differing philosophies create tension and move people to defend their dogma at any cost . Just like the real world.The brilliant part of Red Mars is that each chapter is written from a different point of view . Therein the story does n't fall apart into the dichotomy of the good guys and the bad guys that most stories tend to fall into . Instead the reader is left to ponder what would be the best system for this world without being given the answer directly by the author.The only real negative in Red Mars is the plethora of characters that exist in the world . It is a daunting task to remember who is who at times and the whole time the cast of characters continuously grows as more colonists arrive on Mars . If one is n't paying attention well it is easy to forget who is who . Additionally sometimes the story moves too fast . While terraforming a planet building colonies and establishing a society takes immense amounts of time and must be moved through quickly unless the desire is to bore the reader to death this at times goes too fast and things seem to appear without warning . Cities colonists roads and even forests seem to appear out of nowhere . Again the reader must be on their toes in order to not be left in the Martian dust.Overall however this is a strong story with compelling characters and believable conflicts . This is how I imagine the colonization of Mars will occur in 20 or so years when we actually do begin . ",3
"Mars might as well be Long Island NY or any other Earth area where environmentalists are battling developers . The terraforming movement in Red Mars comes into conflict with those who want to leave Mars as red as we found it moving the plot along nicely in this book and its sequels . But what really drives this book are strong characterizationsmen and women who have believable motivations and interactions loves enemies and sometimes combinations of the two.Although the series peters out a bit by the third book it is an extremely worthwhile read and should satisfy fans who like hard science as well as those seeking characterdriven plots . Red Mars is one of the modern classics that deserves to be read and reread ! ",4
"This is going to be one short review ! Stay away ! unless you like glacial pacing endless description and indepth character sketches.When I first turned to Page One and started I first thought to myself Hey this guy can write ! I was truly surprised and delighted to at last find a writer who really knows how to turn a sentence and a paragraph.Then I continued into Chapter Two and I began to notice things such as the gathering aimlessness of the story . Sure the quality of the prose never sagged and I was still happy to find that . But I became slowly overcome by drowsiness as it became more and more evident that this guy just does n't have a story to tell . Even in the places where things events actually do take place they are related in bland undramatic fashion . I distinctly remember after a long afternoon on a day off from work as my eyelids were drooping ever lower perking up for about a second when I got to the part where the Earth Transnat spacecraft was approaching Mars to intervene in the Rebellion . Boy ! I first thought something exciting just might begin happening ! Boy was I disappointed when the scene just fizzled without any conflict.I should have learned my lesson and put the book aside right then and there . But I slogged on all the way to the end truly hoping it would get better . Sadly it never did . I even went on the Blue Mars . Out of luck yet again.If you like Crichton you will hate Hate HATE Robinson ! This book is the polar opposite of the excellent Airframe Prey and Jurassic Park . Robinson does at first sight appear to offer interesting material and themes but his style of execution is just plain bland . If Crichton 's fare is thought of as a breakfast in an expensive restaurant of French toast crispy at the edges and velvety in the middle sprinkled with cinnamon with REAL Maple syrup and butter with strawberries and sausage on the side then Robinson 's fare is like a plain bowl of oatmeal made with water not milk . Mmmmmsteamy visible texture slight nutty tastebut after a few spoonfulsyuck ! this is all there is ? ? Ironic that the Wikipedia entry for the Mars Trilogy is so much more interesting than the book itself ! or then again perhaps not when considered retrospectivelyYes I see on the Wiki that things DO after all happen in the books BUT THERE IS NO PLOTTING which is to say events do not lead inexorably from one to the next as they must in any fictional work of quality . Events do not build one upon the other these books are essentially episodic with extensive expanses of physical description and endless character sketches.Save yourself alot of time and just look through the Wikipedia entry or get yourself a copy from a friend who has gone through and highlighted the few interesting passages so you can skip over all the drivel . If you really must torture yourself and read it all yourself bring a big box of No Doze or some other such stimulant . ",1
"Not even close . I bought the series based on the Nebula and Hugo Awards . What a HUGE mistake.and I will never trust those particular award juries again . This guy does not have much to say but says it repeatedly exhaustively and ad nauseum . The characters are exclusively two dimensional all lacking passion and driven by inexplicable logic to actions that make little sense . The extensive descriptive narrative is mind numbing and filled with geological jargon . You spend most of the book wading through this blah blah blah and when something finally does happen it is disappointinly anticlimactic . I will never buy another piece of literature by this author . ",0
"Man I wanted to like this book . I really wanted to . I expected to be engrossed with it . I expected this book to provoke some deep thought and reflection in me . I thought the timing of my reading it was especially exciting with the realworld preliminary discussion and planning for a true human mission to Mars possibly 20 years from now.What I did not expect was to give up on this book within 200 pages . But I did . And I 'm pretty disappointed about that.The book 's opening chapter involves a dramatic sequence involving several characters who are pretty clearly major players in the storyline . The narrative was Brate to be sure but it was certainly good enough to continue reading especially to give the story a chance to get its legs under it and really start moving.The next chapter covered the long voyage through space to Mars and what the voyagers had to do to prepare themselves for the red planet as well as passing the time as bored people with social needs in a confined place . Again not an engrossing narrative but it introduced secondary players and further developed the primary players albeit as not much more than soap opera characters trying to negotiate love triangles and power grabs.In the third massive chapter the voyagers finally reach Mars and touch the surface and this novel instantly turns into the near equivalent of a graduatelevel geology textbook and any joy or enthusiasm or intrigue or interest I had at that point utterly evaporated . Pages and pages and pages and pages and pages of descriptions about the different colors and textures of the Martian sand . Pages and pages and pages and pages about the different colors and textures and angles and depth of the ice at the Martian north pole . Pages and pages and pages and pages about the equipment that was needed to mine Martian resources and use the ice as a water source . Every now and then a character would display an exaggerated emotion in a quick superficial way I guess just to show you that these characters are supposed to be distinct real people and that these personalities would clasheventuallyas some pointif their geological expedition ever ended . But before those clashes would come you 'll have to read more pages and pages and pages and pages about the different angles the sun takes in the Martian sky based on the unique rotation and orbit of the planet.I mean come on.I asked three people I know who have read through the book if I should give up or keep reading . Two of them encouraged me to keep reading but one told me to stop . But all three of them agreed that it was at times an excruciatingly boring read . And while I do like hard sciencefiction and I do enjoy the slower dryer more deliberate pace that much of hard scifi follows that third seemingly endless chapter of Red Mars killed the pleasure of reading for me.From what I 've been told the last quarter of the book gets exciting and intriguing . But I 'm not trudging through days of joyless reading to get to it.I just do n't understand the mindset of some authors especially in scifi and fantasy . It 's almost like they challenge you to read hundreds of boring pages to make you earn your way to the good parts . I do n't think it 's unreasonable to expect a novel to move at a steady pace from page 1 and sustain that pace more or less until the final page . It 's not like I read it for only the first 10 pages and said This thing is BORING ! Screw it ! I almost got to page 200 and it was a burden to read one paragraph more . That 's not why I pick up a novel . And I doubt it 's why you do either.Note I gave it 2 stars instead of 1 because I do applaud the effort the author put into writing a book like this . I was impressed by the depth of scientific knowledge . Unfortunately in writing the book the author did not have a keen sense of when to pull back on the scientific detail and let a moving plot take over . ",1
"Topnotch realistic believeable scifi.This book explores the theories and challenges of terraforming and colonizing Mars . Robinson known for his attention to detail and research that goes into his books does a fabulous job of providing great insight about Mars without bogging the book down with boring detail . This book is the first in a 3novel series . ",4
"After reading Red Rabbit last year I 've decided to read all of the Jack Ryan books in storyline chronological order . This is set in the late 1960 's early 1970 's . All I can say is WOW ! I 'm ready to read more . ",4
"This was the first Clancy book that I have read . The action is excellent from the first page to the last . The characters are unique in that they tend to fit well . A former Navy seal is the focal point of the book who falls for a girl that is being used by a drug lord . The girl is killed and the Navy seal plans to take his own style of justice to the drug dealers and eventually the ones who killed the girl . Along the way he is challenged by the Navy to go on a deadly mission inside of Viet Nam . Fortunately the mission is scrubbed in time as the bad guys get reinforcements because of a leak back home about the mission . Our Navy seal returns to the states to finish his work with the drug dealers but also to do one more favor for the government before they give him a new identity and put him to work for them . He has to eliminate the guy who leaked the information about the mission . There are other side adventures that the Navy seal undertakes which makes the book keep the reader 's attention as you read through the 800 or so pages of action and thrills . This one is worth the read . ",4
"Intriguing plot poses interesting moral issues . Sustains high reader interest as story unfolds . Difficult to put down once reader begins reading . ",4
"Normally I expect stories by Tom Clancy to be about combat but this book did n't center on that surprisingly . This book centered on John Kelly an exNavy SEAL grieving the accidental death of his wife . He finds a new love but she is killed by druggies . So he takes it upon himself to avenge her death by becoming a vigilante and taking out the street scum and trying to find the killers . There is a respite when Kelly goes on an operation in Vietnam which fails but all of the subplots are tied together nicely and the action never ends . I could n't turn the pages fast enough.It has parallels to such great works as Heart of Darkness and is not bad . ",4
"This book was extremely tiresome to get through . The military jargon the number of new characters being introduced all the way up until the end of the book the subplots and pointless dialogues and details make this book about twice as long as it should be and very very slow to trudge through . The main character Kelly is an unlikable fella who kills and tortures people and somehow we are supposed to care about him . I did n't and I am not reading another novel by this author and am somewhat surprised that other people enjoyed this piece of trash.Update I still hate this book and find it interesting but mostly sick that people read negative reviews to find something to be pissed off about and then click 'not helpful ' even though they simply disagree . Disagreeing is not the same as 'not helpful ' . By the way the terd that wrote the comment will receive as he gave got that Josh Boone ? Better stay home cuz I 'm gon na get you fartface ! ",0
"I bought this book for my husband . Although long he was unable to put it down . He said it was a very good book . ",3
"This book is one of the best from TC ! I 'm glad my kindle purchase was for a reread however . There are many typos in the kindle version e.g . a 1 rather than a I. Somemost of these are just annoying but some make the text unreadableincomprehensible . I do n't know what the process is for converting a book to kindle format but if I had to guess based on the types of typos that I 'm seeing in there I 'd guess it 's some for of OCR which is fine but they really need to do a better job at proofreading the digitally converted text . I 've noticed these types of errors in some other kindle books but this one seems to be much worse than any of the others I 've seen in the past there seems to be an error every few pages . ",4
"Finally a novel by Clancy that 's not technoporn . And really that 's why it 's both the highestrated and best of his works . Unlike say a good third of Cardinal of the Kremlin which was also good or a good half of Sum of All Fears this is driven by character and plot development not technology . In addition this novel does n't star Jack Ryan and does n't deal with the Cold War comparatively . Maybe Clancy should 've stuck with this type of writing.Yes this is a good novel . Clancy includes some of the espionagetype of narrative without actually dealing with spies or international politics and he even wraps up all the subplots nicely . Since there are n't a thousand things going on at all times like in most of his other works he can focus on believability with this one . Without going into details for instance the change in Sandy 's attitudes about what John does is natural . The foundation of Clark 's methods attitudes and profession here are both fascinating and believable . This is a very engaging read with an intriguing welldeveloped plot that focuses on character development and not every detail in both the construction and detonation of a hydrogen bomb . That is why all the reviews here and elsewhere paint this as the best of Clancy 's novels or among the best and why it 's a great read even without knowing every detail of decades of Jack Ryan 's life . Recommended . ",4
"Tom Clancy has created several fictional heroes that are at the heart of his many novels . One of course is John Patrick Ryan who has served his country as a Marine CIA officer National Security Adviser and President of the United States . With the exception of Red Storm Rising a book that is not set in Clancy 's Ryanverse Jack Ryan appears or is talked about in every novel from The Hunt for Red October to The Teeth of the Tiger.The other major character Clancy readers have come to admire is John Clark a man who works for the other side of the Agency as a paramilitary officer . Whether he is in Colombia using a laser target designator to help bomb a Medellin Cartel member 's mansion or leading a multinational antiterrorist team called Rainbow Clark is the type of man our government needs to use while denying his existence.But John Clark has a past wrapped in mystery one his family does n't know much about and is a closely guarded secret . For John Clark was once exSEAL John T. Kelly Vietnam veteran avid diver and sailor.But when Kelly 's girlfriend is brutally murdered by a Baltimore drug lord 's henchmen the otherwise peacable and warweary Kelly vows revenge . Dispensing his own version of street justice relentlessly and without remorse Kelly must not only avoid being killed by the drug dealers but he also has to evade the dogged detective work of Baltimore cop Emmett Ryan a World War II vet and father of the future President.Adding to his already complicated life Admiral James Greer recruits Kelly to participate in a daring rescue mission into North Vietnam . But when a radicalized American antiwar activist gets wind of this secret military operation events will drive John Terence Kelly down a path that he never intended to take.Although published 11 years after The Hunt for Red October this taut and thrilling novel is the first chapter of the longrunning Jack Ryan saga . If you are just entering the Ryanverse read this entertaining book first . ",4
"By far my favorite Tom Clancy book . The origins of John Clark are revealed in this underappreciated novel . You get to climb inside his personal motivations witness his Navy Seal inspired tactics and see how he becomes a black operative working with the CIA as it carries over into later books . Clancy gives you the details from jury rigged weapons to the psychology of a former soldier with the skills to kill but nowhere to practice them . The story is short on action but long on depth of character . I can see why it would n't do as well as a movie but for the sake of fun reading this may be his best work . ",3
"Five stars because Tom Clancy was the very best writers of military style action . Hard to put any story down he writes . ",4
"If you have n't reas WITHOUT REMORSE yet then you do n't really understand how good of a writer Clancy is.Set during the early '70s this novel is the backsttory for John Kelly AKA Clark the CIA operative who figures extensively throughout Clancy 's Jack Ryan series . As much a morality play as adventure this book explores Clark 's life from happilymarried Navy veteran to CIA operative . Clark battles his demons both real and imaginary until he is forced by circumstance to risk it all.The book is technically accurate and excellent in both character and plot development . It 's a page turner and never predictable . I 've reread it several times and continue to enjoy the nunaces that escape one on a first read . It would be a great movie if Hollywood would n't butcher it like say SUM OF ALL FEARS.You wo n't regret buying it . ",4
"The evolution of John Clark . A must read for Clancy fans Jack Ryan novels . Wish I had read this before any Jack Ryan novels . ",3
"I 'm a big fan of Tom Clancy 's thrillers . Unfortunately most of what makes them enjoyable to me is sadly lacking in this novel the intricate global conflicts between various countries and political groups the gobs of military technology the inner workings and interactions of various government agencies.What we are given here instead is a tale of one man fighting his own private war on drugs . An interesting idea but unlike Mr. Clancy 's usual subject matter he demonstrates little knowledge of the domestic U.S. drug trade . The Drugs Are Bad message is hammered home in an unnecessarily preachy manner and I found myself wishing that Clancy had been more succinct . Nancy Reagan managed to sum up the point of this novel in three words and I 'll echo them as my advice to potential readers Just Say No . ",1
"I could not finish this book . I normally enjoy his books but this one was full of unnecessarily lurid descriptions which left me sick to the stomach . ",0
"Makes Mr. Clark an understood characterfrom his first encounter with pure evil.Parts were almost hard to readso detailedwere theyso inhumane.Clancy was a master and it 's good we have him to hold up for the measure of new story tellers . ",4
"Without Remorse is about John Kelly and his trasformation into John Clark . Kelly is exNavy who ends up deeply entangled in the fate of a drug ring while at the same time assisting in the rescue of American POWs in Vietnam . The purpose of the book is to show the reasons and depth of the transformation of the character John Clark . The story takes place in the late 1960s in Maryland and Vietnam . This is the first book by Tom Clancy that I have read all the way through and I enjoyed it . What I liked most about it is the central character John Clark Kelly . John Clark is a character who is highly skilled in covert military operations including explosives . He is an experienced ship pilot and a man of moral character . The book is well written and the writer is highly knowledgable about the subjects he discusses . However there were times that I found his repitition of certain phrases annoying . Since I enjoyed this book and I liked reading about John Clark I plan to read Rainbow Six as well . ",3
"John Clark is my favorite Clancy character . Thus when I heard about this book I picked it up and read eagerly . I was not disappointed . This novel was a fascinating look into how John Kelly ex Navy SEAL became John Clark CIA allstar.Anyone who enjoyed John Clark 's lesser roles in Clancy 's other books should definitly pick this one up as well . ",4
"This is my favorite Clancy book and edging out the Hunt for Red October is n't easy . This is a thick book yet you will get through it quickly because it is so interesting . It has the most character development of any book . Rainbox 6 follows this so you should read Without Remorse before Rainbow 6 . Note there are fairly descriptive scenes torturing a man with a pressure tank young women forced into rough sex pliers on parts of the body etc.. But without villians you ca n't have a hero . ",4
"It still holds up after 15 years . I can re read this book over and over and still love it . ",4
"Tough combat vetran kills drugpushers left and right because they killed his girl friend . In between killing gangsters at home he slips actually swims into North Vietnam to help save the lives of American POWs.I had to read this big book to the end to find in what creative way he kills off all the pushers but I could only do it by skiping and skiming over and through detailed buildup that was just too long and slow for me.I prefer for example Dan Brown 's more concise method of crafting thillers due to this prefrence of mine I take one star away from Mr. Clancy . ",3
"Without Remorse is a actionthriller during the Vietnam War . The book is filled with twists and turns at every corner . You 'll find yourself flying across oceans on ships underwater or in the big city . It will keep your attention and you will not want to put it down.The takes place in America and Vietnam . The book follows the life of John Clark a Vietnam War veteran whose wife just died in a deadly automotive accident . He will meet new people from around the world and do things many people will never even consider doing . At the same time a upandcoming drug dealer is beginning to emerge from the shadows to stake their claim on the East Coast.Clancy writes the book from multiple perspectives . This allows the different viewpoints on the same situation to allow you to see through both sides ' perspectives . You will come to know the characters throughout the book and learn more about their life.I started this book with no prior knowledge to how Tom Clancy writes . The detail of everything astonished me.Tom Clancy somehow finds to includes small military words speech and other things that make it such a realistic experience.While reading the story you will be immersed in the world of covert operations intelligence agencies and underground drug dealers . Each one of these lives are brought out to full detail.The story grabs you from the beginning and wo n't let you go until the end . There are many twists and turns throughout the book that will keep you guessing all the way to the end . The story makes you want to see each plot lead through . Every character is created with care and has their own personality . ",4
"Rest in peace Tom Clancy . You wrote books so big they could be used as house bricks in an emergency . Your plots were so complex they needed alternate universes to make sense . Your Jack Ryan is one of America 's favorite characters because he represents the truth justice and American way that they strive for . You named one of your books Red Rabbit which was brave to say the least You changed the face of thrillers of technofiction of spy novels . You were inseparable from the words New York Times Bestseller but you never lost your human touch.Not all your books were great and some were downright snorefestive but we will never forget your successes The Hunt for Red October Clear and Present Danger and more . Alec Baldwin owes you a debt too and we 're sorry for that Ben Affleck movieYou died too soon so once again I say rest in peace . I now turn to John le Carre to fill your empty hole but I know the page count is too thick for it to be filled upOnce more we miss you Tom . ",4
"I 've heard a number of mixed reviews on this book . Most people I 've talked to say this book is just so so . Most people on here have written that this book is amazing or Clancy 's best . I 'll agree with the former the latter will always be up to debate.This book is different than the typical Clany novel in two ways.1 It does n't feature Jack Ryan.2 It 's a personal story.The first point is self explanitory but the second may need clarification . Those that have read Clancy 's other works understand his strenghts weaving interesting characters in a technical environment designing thick plotlines that span global environments that may have sounded dumb but it 's true.Without Remorse is none of that . It 's the story of one man and his quest for vengence . It 's also an exploration of whether or not can be justified . Clancy keeps pushing the envelope baraging the characters with events that will test even the most forgiving person 's morals . Is vigilanteism justified ? I 've never read a book that poses as many arguments for it . And yet even after Clancy makes every excuse in the world to justify Clarks actions in the book he plainly and tastefully keeps the book as a whole objective never glorifying violence.In the setting of Clark 's quest for vengeance we also get to witness Clancy writing in a more intimate and emotional fashion . The book rarely strays from Clarks point of view a first for this writer who is known for bouncing all over the place . The story really moved me emotionally a few times as Clancy unfolded the lives of the characters almost cried in one part.People expecting stereotypical Clancy may be disappointed by this departure but do n't be mistaken this is a fine book in it 's own right . Never have I been more impressed with Clancy 's writing.Why only four stars then ? Well because honestly the book is not as strong on the plot department as most Clancy books and the ending is not as climactic as Clancy readers have come to expect . This is n't to say the book is weak in those departments just not that strong . The other strengths of this book help make up this novel 's 'very good ' 4 star rating . ",3
"This book was extremely well written . It is a total suspenseful page turner . I never wanted to put it down . I had to force myself . It is a really exciting story of revenge action and mystery . ",4
"Without Remorse may be my favortie Clancy though I have n't read that many of his books . It focuses on John Clark a farmore interesting character than Jack Ryan IMHO and how he got to the position fans know him in . My only complaint about the book is it 's just too long . It 's been a while since I read it but I remember reading this thing was like running a marathon . While there is n't anything wrong with lengthy books if everything is necessary but I ca n't say this is the case for WR . If you 're a fan of Clancy Clark or the overall Ryan series I would definitely recommend this book . ",3
"John Kelly 's wife is killed in an automobile accident . The book begins by describing his dealing with the loss of his wife . John befriends a former prostitute who is on the run from the cities leader in organized crime . Kelly then falls in love with Pam a prostitute who has escaped from her pimp who works for an up and coming drug lord . John Kelly is an exnavy SEAL . The pimpdrug lord has a hit done on Kelly and kidnaps Pam . Though Kelly is left for dead he is taken to the hospital and recovers . In the meantime Pam is brutally tortured and murdered.This triggers John Kelly 's vengeful attitude . He takes it upon himself to seek justice be tracking down and trying to kill every member of the offending organization.What a brilliant fast pace book . I highly recommend it . I also loved HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER by Tom Clancy . ",4
"As will all of Tom Clancy 's early writing this story will keep you reading till the end . Fast moving plot will multiple lines going at the same time and then wrap them all up at the end.In this story you get to learn who John Clark really is inside and out . ",4
"Lots of action an suspense . Great characters . I could n't put it down . Clancy is a great writer . I ca n't wait to read the rest of his books . ",4
"A bit of a departure from his high tech thrillers . While there is no shortage of high tech gadgets they are not the focal point . The focal point is the origin of the mysterious Mr. Clark . Mr. Clark who began life as John Kelly is a highly trained and experienced Navy SEAL . While home in the U.S. he crosses paths with a domestic drug ring . If you 've ever wondered what a highly trained commando could do to a bunch of ruthless thugs this is your book . I enjoyed every word of it . ",4
"A personal favorite of mine this is the story of John Clark the famous character in the Rainbow SixJack Ryan series . Clark I find to be a much more interesting character than Jack Ryan . Clark has a level of fury and depth that we dont see in Ryan . This is an emotionally intense novel of Betrayal Revenge Deception and War . Basically everything that Clancy has defined over the past decade . ",4
"Has been a few months since reading this book but do recall the plot . It holds your interest enough to want to finish it quickly . ",3
"If you 've never read any other Clancy novel read Without Remorse.In typical Clancy fashion Without Remorse is a lengthy novel filled with great characters lots of suspense and more ! But it breaks from the Clancy norm in that it 's not as intricately detailed technicallyspeaking which makes it a great book to recommend to 1sttime Clancy readers.For those who have read other Clancy novels and therefore may be familiar with the main character John Clark or if you 've seen the movie Clear & amp Present Danger or the more recent Sum of All Fears and recall Clark played by Willem Dafoe and Liev Schreiber respectively Without Remorse gives you the story behind the deadly CIA operative.Not that I do n't thoroughly enjoy the Jack Ryan series but the Clark character is mysteriously intriguing and telling his history is Clancy at his best . It 's my favorite Clancy novel . ",4
"I really enjoyed this book as I 've read many Tom Clancy books before but never knew how John Clark got his start . It 's interesting and fast moving filled with excitement and loads of action . ",4
"My favorite Tom Clancy book and I 've read them all except the Net Force Seriestoo Hardy Boysish looking The technical stuff gets a bit boringthis one has noneit moves quickly a cross between Deathwish and The Rogue Warrior Definitely one of those books you ca n't put down ! ",4
"You just ca n't go wrong with Clancy . He is easily the best espionagewar writer on the market currently . No one can create a complex interwoven storyline like his . His research is outstanding his fact checking impeccable and his characters fascinating . ",4
"Well written but a little heavy on moral judgment . Not my favorite by far . Six more words according to Amazon . ",2
"I rate this between 3.5 and 4 stars.For once I did not read many reviews before buying a book . I only knew that this book was all about how John Kelly became Mr. Clark . I have come across Mr. Clark on many of Clancy 's books previously but he was always a bit of a strange one to me . I 'm glad I read this book as it gave me a great insight into how Mr. Clark became what he is today . It was written in the usual Clancy 's thrilling and detailed ways and I just loved that part of it.But I have a few complaints . Firstly I did not like the way our hero took the law into his own hands.. it almost spoilt the whole book for me at one stage when he actually tortured a man to his eventual death . Secondly I thought Clancy introduced a few unusual and outofcharacter twists in the story at certain stages that seemed to distance the story from reality . For example how John an expert who always seem to take no chances in anything he does took a great gamble by driving Pam through her old rough neighbourhood without even a simple disguise and also the place where John slept in the car with Pam in the same neighbourhood where a few minutes ago they were being chased by a druggang . sloppy work Mr. Clancy.Other than that it was generally a good read . ",3
"Clancy is one of my favorite writers and he did not disappointment ",3
"This was my first Tom Clancy book and my take away would be it 's chick lit for guys . What would you even call that dude lit ? bro books ? There was a lot of violence and hypermasculine characters . I enjoyed reading it though and will definitely keep reading Clancy . ",2
"RE ABRIDGED AUDIO CASSETTE VERSION . Two simulanteous capers from the same protagonist mission impossible commando raid and avenging vigilante assassin should not work together in a credible plot structure but here it does . Such is Clancy 's skill as a storyteller . Neither should the hardboiled hero 's loveatfirsttouch fling with a lost girl be sufficient motivation for the events that follow but again Clancy makes it work . My suggestion sit back and enjoy a master weave suspense from what should be unbelievable circumstances . Dukes although not my favorite reader does good work with this one . ",3
"Starting in The Cardinal of the Kremlin readers of Tom Clancy 's Jack Ryan novels were always treated to a visit from recurring character John Clark the mystery man from the CIA that is sent in to do the dirtiest of dirty work and always comes out ahead . The question that lingered was Who is John Clark and where did he come from ? . Clancy brought us this book to answer those questions.The book 's setting is enough to intrigue me seeing as it was set in 1970 and I was n't born until 12 years later ! It reflects a different time period than the rest of the Clancy novels which means a much smaller reliance on technology and more attention given to the personal aspect of the story much like Patriot Games . At this point John Clark is n't John Clarkhe 's John Kelly the exNavy SEAL an honest hardworking man who has just lost his wife in a car accident . I wo n't go into what happens in the actual plot but at times Kelly is forced to cross the lines of law to take necessary action and even rejoins the service of his country.Later in the book John Kelly assumes the moniker and the identity that Clancy readers have come to loveJohn Clark . There are times in the book that you ca n't believe some of the things that the 'good guy ' is doing but you 're still rooting for him because it 's part of the story and it 's what HAS to happen . The character and the plot is extremely well written.Besides Clark several other familiar Clancy characters are found in WITHOUT REMORSE . James Greer Robert Ritter from Clear and Present Danger and a few others . Minor yet recurring character development is something that Clancy is an absolute master at.Even at 750 pages WITHOUT REMORSE flies by with its furious pace and nonstop action . For an avid reader like myself it 's tough for new books to be called one of my favorites but WITHOUT REMORSE has managed to do just that . ",4
"John Clark is the prototypical kind of hero our country needs in every community and while I 'm sure some exist we could use more . This is one of those books I knew Clancy needed to write and hopefully he writes more because Clark is fantastic character.Clearly the war on drugs has been lost at virtually every juncture . Traditional law enforcement is akin to giving everybody a can of Lysol and expecting the common cold to be cured . Yeah you may get the obvious stuff but there 's so much out there you 're sure to miss enough to keep the supply of bacteria flowing.While I 'm not a proponent of vigilantism few people in this country have not been touched in some way by the pushers cookers and dealers . They are n't just on the street corners in the bad neighborhoods either . They inhabit every socioeconomic strata including the gated communities inhabited by the most affluent.There are times where the viruses on humanity need to be cut out like the cancer they are and a character like Clark can do it . Can you imagine a drug trade in a community where the dealers are shot without warning upon getting caught dealing by a phantom hero ? Or worse are found naked and dying on the street after some torture in a hyperbaric chamber ? I can . The drug trade simply would n't exist.Violence should be a last resort at an conflict resolution but when all other methods fail then the application of violence should be undertaken Without Remorse . ",4
"This story focuses on John Clark a change from the usually Jack Ryan stories . Clark is shown in the gritty special ops world that we always new he had in him . Clancy takes Clark and fleshes him out in ways that he was never able to do in previous novels . This story is not a political thriller the way that Jack Ryans stories might be called this is an action story . When you read this hold on for a great action filled twistyturvey ride . ",3
"Oh what a great novel this is . Clancy weaves a tale that is believable and complex seemingly having thought of every detail . We get to see a character that is thoroughly engaging despite the fact that the book touches on such a touchy subject as condoning murder . As reprehensible as it sounds Clancy is able to make you agree with him.The book could at times get pretty graphic but I do n't think it is gratuitous . Instead the detail allows you to feel and see what is happening as well as let you into Clark 's world.I have nothing bad to say about this book only good . I would definitely recommend Without Remorse to everyone.5 stars . ",4
"Without Remorse is another interesting book from Clancy . It focuses on characater John Clark throughout events which ultimately lead to his recruitment by the CIA and the death of John Kelly . This book basically contains two seperate plots one concerning Clark 's quest to avenge a prostitute with whom he fell in love with and whom was brutally murdered by her former pimpdrug dealer and a plot in which Clark is asked upon by the U.S. Navy specifially Admiral James Greer to assist in the rescue of POWs in Vietnam . Although both plots occur throughout the telling of the novel the first half focuses primarily on Clark 's personal vendetta against the pimpand drug dealers in general while a slow transition takes place during the middle of the novel in which more focus is put onto Clark 's planned rescue attempt of POWs . I found the situation with the POWs more interesting but Clark 's personal mission against the drug dealers makes for more defining moments which affect Clark 's character . If you 've read Clear and Present Danger you 'll understand better Clark 's antipathy towards drug dealers more after reading this . Although these two seperate plots are enough for a book in themselves I thought Clancy did a good job of making them both interesting and important to the story . Without Remorse makes Clark 's past much less mysterious which seems in the bigger picture to be the novel 's main function . One gains a lot more insight into Clark 's motivations and innner mind . One thing I did n't like about this novel was the fact that 's it 's not made clear until considerably into the story that this is all taking place during the Vietnam era . Until that was made clear I automatically assumed this was taking place in the present . A very interesting aspect to this book is the connection John Clark has to Jack Ryan 's father . I wo n't spoil what it is but I thought it was a pretty interesting albeit not necessary connection . Clark 's actions in this novel as in others are very questionable and when reading this one must try to answer that old question of Does the end justify the means ? Clancy presents a realistic world in which there is n't a clear difference between right and wrong and Clark must struggle to balance the law with justice as they are n't always one and the same . In reading of Clark 's actions one must ask themselve what they 'd do in the same place and question the morality of those decisions and actions . While reading this novel you ca n't help but somewhat sympathize with and understand Clark 's crude violent acts but at the same time acknowledge the fact that these acts are n't completely noble and right . Your sense of morals and ethics clashes with your darker desire to see the terrible people in this novel feel the same pain they 've caused others . I feel that this book really deserves a rating between 3 and 4 stars but since I ca n't give that I 'll give it a 4 . Overall I do n't think Without Remorse was as good as some of Clancy 's other novels but it 's certainly worth the read if you 're a big John Clark fan . ",3
"Competent enough writing but a story for testosteroneoozing teenagers not adults . At least three different potential novels here without any one of them developed sufficiently.Tom Clancy was never exactly an artist but this reads like an assembly of various notes he had for different stories thrown together into one bloated book . Very difficult to finish . ",1
"This book establishes Clancy 's character John Clark used in most later adventures . It also establishes the ClarkRyan connection that prevails through most of the later novels.The story is full of believable action and adventure found in most Tom Clancy books . It amazes me that Clancy almost foresees events that happen in the future . ",4
"This was the fifth Clancy book I have read but my first in many years . Without giving much away it is mainly a story of revenge . In this book you get to see how some of the regular characters in other Clancy novels come to be . I thought the book was fine & if you are just starting out the book does pick up the pace once you get one or two hundred pages in . I did n't rate this book higher because I feel the story could have been done with less than 750 pages that 's two pretty good sized books . Also much of the book takes place in Vietnam & details some Navy Seal SOG action . I have recently read the book SOG by John Plaster & I have to say the action in that book is hard to beat & it was hard for me not to compare the two . Without Remorse does finish with a bang just for me it took a little long to get there . ",2
"Tom Clancy did a great job as usual . As a writer he is more than able to transport you to the place of his choosing and make you care about his characters . Thus guaranteeing that you 'll come back for more . This is a book that I read years ago and I enjoyed it just as much the second time as the first . ",4
"Without Remorse is another in the series of well writtenfinely detailed Tom Clancy books . His writing style and attention to detail keep the reader in the story and well informed.I am a big fan of Tom Clancy . You will like him also.I 'd tell you more but do n't want to spoil it for you.I 've read a lot of Tom Clancy books and they are very entertaining . ",4
"Tom Clancy has written an engrossing story . I really enjoyed it and then recommended it to my husband who also enjoyed it . It was one of those books that was hard to put down . ",4
"What do you like about a book ? Do you like to read a good book and escape into a fantasy world for little while ? Do you like to read a good action packed pageturner ? Or do you like a good reality based book ? If you answered yes to the first two questions then this is definitely the book for you . If you answered yes to the last question then this probably not a book you would enjoy . Without Remorse is pure fiction . I have read several of the reviews on this site and it seems to me that several people have forgotten that one important fact.This is a dark novel that at its very heart is a tragic violent story . The central character in this story is John Kelly . Kelly is a former navy seal recently removed from two tours of duty in Vietnam that has his world rocked by tragedy not once but twice in the span of a few months . John Kelly is a man of violence and decides to lash out those that have wronged him in the only way he knows how . Throughout the story Kelly commits several acts that are not only illegal but at times shocking . But let 's give Clancy some credit for making the reader care about and even root for such a violent man . Kelly stalks and eliminates victims often randomly simply to disguise his ultimate goal of vengeance on those that made the mistake of leaving him alive . Kelly himself admits at one point that he murders one man for what in his mind is simply practice . Kelly is not a psychopath but a vigilante removing the dregs of society from the streets of Baltimore . At one point Kelly intervenes in the mugging of a woman knowing full well that he has put himself in danger of being caught and takes his frustrations out on the mugger . That moments shows how in the span of just a few minutes Kelly can be moved by compassion for the mugging victim yet hold nothing but contempt for the mugger and those like him.The interesting plot twist to the story takes place when the U.S. Navy comes calling to ask Kelly to help plan a mission to liberate a P.O.W . camp in Vietnam . Kelly reluctantly accepts his new assignment and begins to plan and execute two very different but equally deadly missions . Those of you familiar with the Tom Clancy series of novels are probably familiar with the Mr. Clark character . Through all of the action in this book we find out how John Kelly becomes the ominous CIA operative Mr. Clark . The beauty of this book though is that you need not have read any of the previous Clancy novels to understand what is happening . But if you have read the other books you begin to get a tremendous amount of insight into many of the secondary characters mentioned in many of the Jack Ryan series books.Clancy takes a tremendous amount of time introducing you to each and every character in the book and at times I will admit it becomes a bit tedious . However once the story begins to come together you will be glad that you had all of the background information . Tom Clancy has a knack of weaving a very intricate story and pulling every seemingly loose end together at the end to form an exciting climax . At first glance the shear number of pages in this book may intimidate you but if you give it a chance I am sure that you will not be disappointed . ",4
"Clancy gets deeply personal and raw in the & # 8220origins & # 8221 tale of the mysterious agent Clarke in this novel . Less layered in plot and more character driven than just about any other of his novels this is a story of violence pride love and revenge that centers on the subset of human culture that makes the dark news headlines drug dealers black ops police corruption and those that work around these areas with the murky goal of doing good . Not for the faint of heart it is often graphically violent and the & # 8220good guys & # 8221 do not so much & # 8220win & # 8221 as come out of it transformed into & # 8220darkly good & # 8221 mediators of often covert justice . ",3
"This one blew me away . I started this book not suspecting much . Wow I was blown away . We start with a man named Kelly and well I ca n't really say more with out giving the book away . All I have to say is that this books rocks . Clancy takes you for a ride . There is so many subplots in this book . So you can never get bored with it . At one time Kelly is doing this then he is doing something with the CIA . I mean it is a big action pack thriller . The ending is what brings it all together to make all his other books make sence and I commened him for that . ",4
"This book does not deviate from the formula that has made Clancy a successful writer . There are actually two or three plot lines going on at once that all tie together in the end . The downside of this method is the same in this book as it is in his others as well . Interesting beginning followed by several hundred pages of less than interesting material followed by an exciting finish . It works well in some cases however this book seemed to lack the suspense that his other novels have . There were a few twists and turns at the end but nothing too surprising.My other criticism of Clancy 's book is the same as my other reviews . Too much profanity and the repeated use of violent rape scenes to move the plot along . That 's not entertaining to me . If it was n't for the fact that I already have his books sitting on my bookshelf I would n't be reading any more Tom Clancy . ",1
"This is one of three Clancy books I have in my Kindle . It is my favorite Clancy book and one of my favorite books of all time . I have read it at least four times and I will read it again . ",4
"this was still a great read but not good as some his other books he is still my best author ",2
"I was told would enjoy this book by Clancy and wow I did..Is a book that grabs you and the start and does n't let go until the very last page.. I really got lost in this book all the way thru is action and just when you want slow down more action jumps up for you.. Some books can be a little slow either at first middle or toward the last but not Without Remorse if you like action you will love this book as Clancy delivers all the way.. ",4
"This is the story of how John Kelly became Mr. Clark the CIA operative that plays such a big part of early Clancy books . It begins with Vietnam veteran Kelly in the midst of getting over his wife 's death . He has a chance meeting with a pretty young woman and a night of passion quickly turns to love . The girl 's past soon comes back to haunt her however as the pimps she escaped from find her . Kelly is sent reeling with another death of someone close to him . He vows revenge on the entire gang of drug dealers and discovers there are many more girls like the one he loved that need help.While Kelly is carrying out his plans he is also recruited by the military to run an operation that sends him back to Vietnam . American POWs have been found there . Kelly is put in charge of designing a mission training the men and leading them to rescue the prisoners.Without Remorse was n't one of my favorite Clancy books . The Vietnam POW story line is n't heavy enough and the final raid is anticlimactic . The story line with the girl and the drug gang takes up the bulk of the book and while it 's interesting to a point it also goes on too long . I got bored during much of that plot . The book as a whole was trying to show why Mr. Clark can do the things he does but for me it did n't achieve that goal . ",2
"This is by far my favorite Clancy book and I would recommend it to anyone who is interested in the Jack Ryan series or anyone with an interest in military fiction . It is definitely a 45 star book.The reason that I give it 3 stars is the Kindle conversion . The formatting is just not professional enough for a Kindle book priced at $ 6 $ 7 . There are a LOT of misspelled words and many of them are n't even properlyspelled but wrong words they are just gibberish . Also Clancy makes heavy use of italicized text which the Kindle version tends to munge up . If it was one or two I could live with it but it 's at least one every few pages and some have so many that it distracts from the story.Summary great story fantastic writing just a horrible editing job in the Kindle version . ",2
"This is my favorite Tom Clancy gook to date . The book goes back in time to tell John Clark 's fascinating history as a former Navy SEAL . The book takes you on two stories simultaneously one being a secret mission in Vietnam to rescue American POWs and the other Clark 's personal vendetta against a criminal drug ring . In the end the stories cross paths . My only criticism is that Clark 's character is a little too superhuman and a little more struggle on his part to accomplish his missions may be a little more engaging that said I was hooked enough to continue through this long book rather quickly . ",4
"Tom Clancy is one of the best writers I know . This book held my attention from the first page . I would recommend this book to anyone who likes a good story whether or not they like books about the military etc . I usually do not but I love Tom Clancy 's books . ",4
"First thing ignore the professional reviewer 's naked bias.Now John Kelly transforms into CIA legend Mr. Clark in this unrelenting page turner . For me this is the strongest and most dynamic novel in Clancy 's quasiseries involving Jack Ryan et.al . Clark one of the previously minor recurring characters comes alive with a vengeance here . This novel is equal parts background psychological motivation and unparalleled action and suspense.Reminiscent of Death Wish only with less hand wringing vigilante justice is meted out as the title indicates without remorse in response to pernicious pervasive lawlessness . As with another 70s classic Dirty Harry civil liberties are cast aside by the former Navy seal in an attempt to right the wrongs of a society in chaos . Far from recoiling in horror as a few reviewers indicated I found this novel inspirational.My advice for what its worth is to judge this through the prism of the reality presented in the entire Jack Ryan ' series . Thus Clark 's motivation is explained and you can identify or empathize with him or not . This is not an overtly political or a howto book . I recommend this novel both singularly and as one segment of the series preferably the later . ",4
"I knew about John Clark from Sum of All Fears but did n't know anything about him who he was and how he came to be John Clark . I thought the book was very well written of course but the story is good too . John is someone you can really like . Typically I do n't care for the killers in the books but John is different . This book was just a little bit slow getting started but when it did it was great . It goes from one spot in the story to another just a little bit more than I like but all in all it was good . I would read it again and watch a movie knowing the outcome too . ",4
"In 'Without Remorse ' Tom Clancy tells us the story of CIA legend Mr. Clark . 'Remorse ' Takes place during the frantic days of the Vietnam War when exNavy seal John Kelly is content to live a solitery life after the death of his wife and child . When a new friend of Kelly 's is brutaly murdered and he himself injured he becomes John Clark and takes the law into his own hands . While Clark 's rampage is in full swing in Baltimore a downed Mormom pilot is taken prisoner in Vietnam . The top brass are adamant that this pilot be brought back before he is forced to give away defence secrets . Clark is called in and sent back to battle for one final mission . The results of both Clark 's military mission and his destructive personal vendetta make this a thriller in the great Clancy tradition . 'Without Remorse ' sets the stage for the 'Jack Ryan ' novels in which John Clark is a major character and is another thrillfilled novel from the master . ",3
"The Most UnputDownable Of All of Tom Clancy 's works . First of all my apologies to Sir Winston and Daniel Webster for the title but this was the effect of the book in question upon me . Second I have just reviewed the onestar reviews of this book and was amazed though those people certainly have the right to their opinions . To me this book is just something once I have picked it up that I am in deadly danger from even if I have picked it up just to look at one section . I end up reading the whole thing . Again . There are sections that just demand that I read them like where Nurse O'Toole alone sees John Kelly 's face when he sees the last picture of Pam . The language is not perfect but how that is described is very very good . The scene with the pimp in New Orleans is interesting particularly because Kelly decides to answer his question . The scene were Kelly reaches the Closest Point of Approach with the one drug dealer on the street is a personal favorite of mine.Tom Clancy wrote a realistic book about what a man would do if he had the training and the motivation and nothing to lose . The consequences Kelly inflicts upon those that hurt him are entirely realistic and the fact that he considered himself better than his targets was also true to life . Soldiers of anykind who are that motivated would view the drug dealers as scum and soldiers tend no matter what a philosopher would tell you to think in terms of goodguybad guy even when they are not so roused . Special Operations soldiers would be even more prone to this mentality and the way Mr. Clancy has Kelly methodically roll them up is entirely chilling in its ruthlessness.At first Kelly has no motivation but revenge . Una salus victus nullam sperare salutem . The one hope of the damned is that they have no hope of salvation . My apologies to linguists everywhere I undoubtly butchered that translation but that is Kelly 's mentality after the beginning . However he does evolve as he goes down this path he does question his conscience and his motivation changes . The journey becomes less about revenge and more about defending those that can not defend themselves . I am not a violent person nor do I condone vigilante mentality but this book is a well thought out exercise in what a vigilante would do . Perhaps this could even be related to Marvel 's Punisher but Clancy 's adaptation of this concept is masterfully done . I would dispute those who say it is not technical it is the essence of the techniques of tactical stealth.This book is not for children and it is not pretty . People who were adults at the time might find flaws in detail but I personally could not . People who saw the Vietnam War on the nightly news might also not care for it for the American Tragedies and atrocites that covered much of the news at the time hardly have any mention . As this is solely the story of how John Clark came to be leaving them littlementioned was the correct choice.All in all this is my favorite Clancy book for the story it told . The Hunt for Red October might be better but only by a whisker . ",4
"Not Clancy 's finest work but eventually became a gripping pageturner for me . I guess it took me a while to get into the story because I kept thinking that the background story of Clark just did n't need to be told . But once I got past that hurdle and the overly quick development of the love interest between John and Pam I really got immersed in the story and the parallels Clancy was drawing between the foreign war and the casaulties of the hidden war still raging on American soil in our inner cities.I knocked a star off for the gratuitous insertion of the Ryan family into the story . I mean come on ! ",3
"Well written realistic personal adventure book . Keeping in the Tom Clancy style this is another lovel tying together the numerous characters in the Tom Clancy series . Tom Clancy 's attentiion to details and accuracy of times and actual places and equipment give the reader the feeling of really being immersed in the story and not just standing outside . ",4
"Without Remorse is Clancy 's introduction to John Clark a character who reappears in many other novels Clear and Present Danger Cardinal of the Kremlin etc.. Clark formerly John Kelley is involved in two different plots in this book in completely different settings but nicely parrelel . There are no plot holes in this book and some moments where you just stop reading because you are so suprised by what you read.This book is also the death of Kelley . On his mission of revenge he loses his humanity and this death explains some of his other evil actions as in the finale to Rainbox Six . ",3
"In 'Without Remorse ' Tom Clancy tells us the background story of CIA legend Mr. Clark . Six months after the accidental death of his pregnant wife John Kelly pulls over and picks up a young girl standing by the side of the road . Kelly falls in love with Pam as he helps nurse her back to help . Pam reveals that she was a teenage runaway that was made into a drug addict so that she would become a prostitute to make money for a group of drug dealers . Kelly wants to see who these people are and where they operate at since he has friends on the police force in the city where Pam was a prostitute . As they are patrolling the neighborhood they are spotted by the drug dealers . Kelly is shot and left for dead and Pam 's body is found a few days later in a public park . Kelly decides to rid the city of the drug dealers his way killing each of them with a different weapon so the police wo n't have a M.O . to go off of . ",4
"Well written story from Mr Clancy . This will hold your attention until you are so tired you have to go to bed then get up to finish it . ",4
"A spectacular reading novel . Clancy has a style which appeals to most readers . He can draw brilliant pictures with words . Clancy certainly seeks wellinformed sources for his research . His ability to include the subtle bits of detail to complete the mental picture is matched by few . This reader is anxious for another Clancy novel . ",3
"Tom what can I say so enjoyed this book.your characters so real.plenty of action and hero's.sometimes evil has to be taken care of .lots of turns.villains got some rough justice due them . ",3
"This is a great read Brutal and dark but really shows where Clark came from . It mentions Ryan senior Jack 's father but should not IMHO be grouped as a Ryan novel . Just saying ",3
"This just popped into my review folder . I read this book many years ago but Without Remorse is perhaps my favorite book of all time . This was written back when Clancy did all his own writing and research and it shows . While in the beginning you may ask yourself why do I need to understand how to tie a bowline or a clove hitch for example you will find out as you read that you are being lead down a path of understanding that makes the story rich and visual . For anyone who wants to know how John Clark began and how he became such a badss this explains it all in the most brilliant work Tom Clancy has ever produced . ",4
"An absolute amazing entry into the Jack Ryan universe . This novel provides the back story of the mysterious character of John Kelly A.K.A . Mr. Clark . The events take you on a two fold journey . One a revenge trip John takes on the local pimps and drug dealers who attacked him and killed his girl . While doing this he also plans and executes a Special Ops mission into Vietnam to rescue an American P.O.W . The action is intense and keeps moving at a steady pace through out . If you are new to Tom Clancy this book is a great place to start . ",4
"I bought a kindle for myself for ChristmasClancy is my all time favorite author and I have read most not all not a fan of the new ghost writing novelsYUCK of his books . This is my favorite onesogonna buy the kindle version and see how it goes . Will come back and update what I think ",4
"REALLY A GOOD BOOK READING THIS ONE WAS ENJOYABLE THANK YOU IF ALL HIS BOOKS WERE AS GOOD AS THIS ONE IT WOULD BE A PLEASURE TO READ ",4
"I 've been reading Tom Clancy since 1989 when my dad gave me copies of Hunt for Red October and Red Storm Rising as I left for college . I 've loved most of his work things started going seriously south with Rainbow Six in particular Without Remorse . A few weeks ago I decided that I wanted to revisit this favorite so I purchased the Kindle edition.This novel focuses on the events leading to John Kelly 's transformation into Mr. Clark a central figure in several of the Jack Ryancentric novels . Largely absent from Without Remorse is Clancy 's typical wideangle view of events with periodic zooms into the events in one setting or another though it 's clear that the historical context shapes the story . The story is wellpaced and Clancy does a solid job of making us care about the central characters.The Kindle edition of Without Remorse however reads like someone tore the pages out of the novel and scanned them into the computer using a version of OCR software dating back to the mid90s . There are quite a lot of mangled words spacing is often weird and punctuation frequently does n't make sense . If you can overlook this sort of thing the Kindle edition will work just fine for you . If you find that such problems interrupt the flow of the story as I do you 're better off passing on the Kindle version and tracking down a hard copy from your local library or used book store . ",2
"This book will take you from the very start 'til the end . A real Ca n't put it down must read . ",4
"Clancy is an excellent writer I 'm sure . I just found this book hard to follow and a too deep into details . Bounced around too much for my taste . The story was actually very good but I just got board with the detail depth and how long it got to conclusion . ",2
"I did not enjoy this book at all . would not reccomend it . This certainly was not one of his better books . ",1
"This was a great book . Very different from the other Clancy books that I have read but very good none the less . While Clancy 's books deal with espionage and war this book takes those aspects and put them in the background . Shoved to the foreground is a revenge story . This is a great book with characters that you care about and some very exciting action sequences . This book is highly recommended . ",3
"Without Remorse is prerequisite reading to fully appreciate later books with Mr. Clark to fully appreciate why he does what he does . ",3
"This is one of Tom Clancy 's best novels yet and surprisingly it does n't way over a pound . It misses the mark by 1 ounce . This book was actually created after The Hunt for Red October and Patriot Games but is the first in the series . It is more or less a prelude to the series . Amazingly enough Jack Ryan does not play a particuly big role in this book . But none the less Tom Clancy shows how one man can change from a normal citizen into a coldblooded killer who will stop at nothing to reach his goal . I suggest this book to anyone who likes Tom Clancy and is willing to devote some time to a book . This is one of my favorite books in the series right next to The Hunt for Red October which has to be the best . This is just the book to start off the series . ",4
"At some point Tom Clancy moved from being a great technothriller writer to a strident rightwing journeyman pedestrian page filler . I think this was the book where that turn became obvious . While there are excellent technical details and the novel moves at a fairly rapid pace there are also many strident pages full of racist stereotypes . Unfortunately Clancy also tries his hand at writing sex scenes and he is embarrassingly bad it . A disappointment . ",1
"This is the Tom Clancy before the horrible Red Rabbit and the long and also horrible the bear and the Dragon . What I mean is that this is Tom Clancy at his best . This is my fav Clancy novel . It is about John Kelly whose wife has just died and months meets a woman who he finds out had a terrible past . He tries to help her but then she dies also and Kelly sets out to punish the men who did that to her . Meanwhile there are American soldiers trapped in a Vietnamese camp and the American Government wants Kelly to help them rescue them . It is an action packed novel . If you like Tom Clancy novels this is one novel you must not miss . To my opinion this is Clancy 's best novel . ",4
"This story is in the best tradition of Clancy . Parallel stories all filled with action and suspense . Some end the way you expect and some do n't . The characters come alive as only Clancy and a few others can make them . ",4
"This is the story of the origin of Mr. Clark first introduced in Clear & Present Danger . It 's one of Clancy 's best novels & gives you a little history lesson in the origins and previous work from many other characters from the Jack Ryan series of novels . Great book I still ca n't believe this one has never been made into a movie . ",4
"I 've read this piece three years agowhile serving my first year in the israeli defence force . Looking back at this stage of my life I can say honestly that I was very young naive and green . Things have changed greatly ever since but some remain the same . This book came at a very confusing time for me I was n't satisfied with my service and thought of other options one of them was the Israel Marine Commando our version of the Navy Seals . This book actually had helped me make up my mind to dismiss this option . Do n't get the wrong impression . It 's a must read .The first 100 pages are the best I 've ever read . The story is so thrilling it 's hard to put it down .It made me realize how terrible the status of the women in our society was and still is . I actually cried out loud in pain while reading . Those days were exetremly violent in Israel every monday and thursday I 'd read about a woman being slaughter and felt the urge to do something to fight those killersto punish them like Kelly punished the murderer in the book . In regard to the Commando dilemma I realized they make a killer out of a man . I descided I do n't wan na kill anybody . It 's not my way . Eventually the issues the book deals with are somber and very important to disscuss but my space here is limited . I would like anyone with interest in this subjests to contact me for further discussion . And please read it it 's an experience that is hard to forget . ",4
"I 'm hardly a bleeding heart liberal and I thoroughly enjoyed Dirty Harry and Death Wish movies that you could really relate to in the context of their time when it seemed the criminals had more rights than their victims but this book is too much even for me because the vigilante style justice that our hero John Kelly dispenses to Baltimore 's drug dealers and pimps in his quest for revenge is almost impossible to justify . That 's the principal plot of this book along with a somewhat interesting subplot that explains how Kelly was recruited by the CIA to set up a mission to rescue some POW 's in Vietnam which in time led to his taking on a full time job with the Agency along with the alias John Clark.What sets the story in motion is when Kelly encounters a skinny but attractive girl named Pam who is on the run from a gang of vicious pimpsdrug dealers . In the first 100 pages or so he falls for her and with the help of a friendly doctor gets her cleaned up and drug free only to lose her when the gang spots her riding with him through their turf . Right off the bat this seems like an act of monumental stupidity on Kelly 's part . He knows how ruthless these gang types are yet he brings her back to their neighborhood without putting her in any kind of disguise ! What a bonehead ! And to top if off after he initially eludes the bad guys by driving his 4x4 through a muddy lot in which their low riding sports car gets stuck he then parks just a few blocks away where the villains track him down and ambush him giving him a nasty shotgun blast to the arm while taking Pam to be killed in an extremely cruel fashion.The rest of the book is about Kelly 's oneman mission of vengeance . He finds that by disguising himself as a wino he can roam the gang 's territory without attracting attention and he then starts homing in on the gang as he kills off an assortment of small fry dealers in his quest for info on his real targets . And that really is the problem with this book . It is entirely reasonable to cheer him on when he actually starts working on Pam 's killers including a scene where he tortures to death a particularly vicious man named Billy but the rest of his killings are little more than cold blooded murder . True pimps and drug dealers tend to be human scumbags but neither crime warrants the death penalty as Clancy seems to be suggesting . Viewed purely as a work of fiction Without Remorse is basically OK but in moral terms it comes off as somewhat disturbing . ",1
"Without Remorse is without a doubt ONE OF MY FAVORITE CLANCY NOVELS ! John Kelly Codename Clark is a CIA analyist and former Navy SEAL . Now this his is younger days working for the CIA back in the 60 's during the war in Nam and he did some secret covert missions for the CIA . Clark picks up a prostitute named Pam and Clark befriends her since she has no family and she tells Clark about what the pushers do to her and this is how she makes her money so with anger flowing through his blood Clark is ambushed by the pushers in the ghetto and Pam is taken from the jeep and is tortured and beaten . Now with Pam dead John decides to get back at them by bringing them war since they asked for it and they got it.Now with John fighting the pushers John befriends Sandy a doctor at the local hospital for Pam and they become close and she does not know what John is doing since he keeps it quiet . Now John is sent to North Vietnam to rescue a down F14 Tomcat fighter pilot being held prisoner by the North Vietnamese and the Soviets . So with the pushers put on the side he goes to Nam and he does what he has to do and he gets out . He then comes back to America and killing al of the pushers who had the hand in killing Pam he now confronts the main gun in the drug pin so he gets his revenge and joins the CIA so with the pushers dead and the police on him for murders of the other pushers he killed earlier the cops are on his tale and Emmit Ryan Jack Ryan 's father is on the case and now it has gone cold but he has a suspect John Kelly . So with the help of the CIA they faked John 's death and they give him a new name John Clark.The novel is very exciting and this is a must read for any new of old Tom Clancy fan out there . Ignore his new stuff with caution just stick to The Hunt For Red October to Rainbow Six . ",4
"I used to read Clancy 's novels such as Red October and Clear and Present Danger then lost interest as he became more technically minded and lost some of the heart behind his storytelling . Nevertheless fellow readers have insisted for years that I need to read Without Remorse . I finally dove into the story on a long flightand without remorse ! Clancy goes further back in time in this story than in any other visiting the years of the Vietnam war and burgeoning drug trade on the streets of Baltimore . John Kelly later known as the infamous Mr. Clark is the lead character . Clancy readers are familiar with him from Jack Ryan books but this novel is all Kelly 's . It starts with him in mourning over the loss of his pregnant wife then gives him a chance at a new life when he picks up an alluring yet darkly mysterious woman alongside the road . That fateful decision will bring him love and peace as well as deep anger and violence.As Kelly sets out on a path of vengeance hunting down despicable men on the streets of Baltimore he also trains for a mission to rescue American pilots from a Vietnamese POW camp . These two stories converge with Kelly at the center . Not all will go as planned . And we will understand why where and how Mr. Clark became the feared CIA agent in later chronologically books.Clancy focuses on the human story here and it 's a potent formula when bolstered by his weapons and military knowledge . This ranks up there with some of my alltime favorite action novels and certainly ranks as my favorite Clancy title . ",4
"Tom Clancy probably wrote this on a ship in his early 20s . It 's a great example of a first novel and how much better an author can become . There is less than 1 paragraph about Jack Ryan in this book when he thinks about which college he will attend at age 18 VERY misleading to Jack Ryan in parenthesis in the title ! ",1
"I 've read many of his books and am frequently bored or find it poorly edited but this book was great a big difference beyond the others . Far more badass than the previous and even future ones somewhat very cool how he gets back at the bad guys at one point acting as a homeless person the description of how he lives is great . A great action novel not much of a thinker 's book but are any of Clancy 's ? ",4
"While it 's sometimes hard to follow with sudden scene changes this was really good & very complex . It made me think . ",4
"A superb introduction into the shadowy world of John Kelly aka John Clark . From the moment he picks up the young female hitch hiker and from when she dies at the hands of the drug dealers you know what happens he gets his own revenge . It was pretty awesome but alarming how Clancy went into his own exact details on how KellyClark builds his own firearms . So maybe liberties were taken and the narrative states a lot that he is a Navy SEAL trained to do all these things he does . But my one criticism is this for the plot . If Sandra O'Toole his nurse girlfriend really did n't like him killing all these drug dealers when she found out he was responsible by her own intuition surely she would have left him ? Any woman with enough intelligence would ! 'Without Remorse ' healthy attitude or a state of mind from the indoctrinations of military training and the Vietnam War ? Judge for yourself . So the revenge element becomes another Goons of HazzardDeath Wish type scenario . If one can convey the atmosphere of despair at being a victim of a horrific crime like that as well as Clancy and makes an impression on someone is this a good thing ? Think . . . I know I was beaten up in school several times and I did take a violent revenge admittedly but I never felt better for it . Kelly 's portrayal as a jarhead robot brainwashed by the ongoing war effort works in fiction though . Just do n't emulate it . . . As far as the CIA recruiting him for his skills this is an interesting angle . The Vietnam scenes of the POW camp with the Russian and American officers held prisoner shows how in war people are the same . Humans not combat robots . Just the same discussing each other 's strategies on nuclear defence and asking themselves why they are enemies ? Naval scenes with Admiral Greer in an early incarnation as excellent as ever ! And we do see an early incarnation of Jack Ryan while his father Emmet hunts down Kelly . Altogether one to read for yourself and one to think carefully about afterwards does Kelly 's end justify the means ? Drug dealers may be scum but death puts them out of the misery of living to regret what they 've done wrong at the hands of the crazies inside . Well done Tom Clancy . ",4
"P. 46 . Clancy describes her as a pharmacologist . She is portrayed as a physician in healing Pam and Doris . A pharmacologist is NOT an MD . She may have been a 'doc ' but only as a PhD.514 held should me he 'd ",3
"This novel really did not hold my interest . It starts out with a number of seemingly unrelated incidents . The author apparently knows where he is and when he is but it would be nice if he would share that with his readers . The novel then proceeds with a bunch of parallel plots jumping continually from one to another . That is compounded by the author occasionally telling you how to build a watch when you just wanted to know the time . Do we really need a manual on building sound suppressors for handguns ? The various plots eventually start to come together but by that time I was losing interest and skimming over substantial amounts of material trying to get on with the story . I regret that I followed the advise of the majority of reviewers who rated it with four and five stars and purchased the novel . It is a skimmer rather than a pageturner and it is not on my listing of recommended novels for other readers . ",1
"I know I 'm going to aggravate most die hard Clancy fans by giving this three stars but hey it 's an 'OK ' book . Could have been about 300 pages less and still got his point across . I did like how Kelly took out an entire gang with ease throughout the book . It just seemed like there was too much going on for all this to be believable though . Come on the guy is planning a raid on a Vietnam POW camp like the real life 'Bo Gritz ' and at the same time is putting away the local bloods and crips with a K Bar.This book would have gotten a better rating for me if less time was spent on the rehab of a drug addict and more time spent on the POW camp raid . I had no idea before reading this book that it was also about American POW 's so that was a nice surprise . All that buildup for . Well I do n't want to spoil anything but there only about 3 pages out of the 750 that dealt with the snatch of that Russian officer . I think that in the time frame we were dealing with the local cops would n't have cared much if a guy was wasting the local drug dealers . Maybe in today 's world they would have to put on a dog and pony show with interviews and the whole nine after pressure from civil rights but not in the late 60 's early 70's.In the end this book falls short of explaining to the reader exactly why Clark is the special opscovert guy he is today . ",2
"This book is a departure from the formula of his previous works like Clear and Present Danger and Patriot Games . It is a story of revenge taken by Clancy 's CIA operative John Clark . We see how Clark came to be who he is in the Jack Ryan novels . This book was fantastic and it is recomended to all as are all of Clancy 's novels . ",3
"I am a new Tom Clancy reader starting with rainbow six then moving on to this book to read a little more about john clark Kelly . I have to say it did keep me on the edge of my seat with all the twist and turns he could have made this into three different novels if he wanted . I loved it . Thought it an excellent read and am looking forward to reading more of Clancy 's titles I hope they are as good as the last two . ",4
"And here 's whyIts his most accessible by far . I had learned about John Clark in reverse my perceptionwas that he was just another cold blooded killer a machine programmed to do the biddingof the CIA . This tells his story with great compassion and sensitivity and thats why thisis my # 1 Clancy thriller of all time.Gone are the laborious details of submarines fighters tanks etc . that so many yearn forwhat we have is an old fashioned story of love and revenge . And boy does Clancy get the revengepart right . Somewhat implausible for purists but come on people this is a fast grippingand highly satisfying feast of methodical payback ! Just the way its supposed to be . A mustread . ",4
"My only complaint about this story is that it is the first in the JOHN CLARK series NOT the first in the JACK RYAN series . Jack Ryan has a bit part and no more.I did like the story a lot and plan to read the other two books in the JOHN CLARK series . I also just finished the real first book in the Jack Ryan series Patriot Games and liked it even more . I expect I 'll enjoy all nine books in that series . ",3
"If you are a Jack Ryan fan then you will want to read this book to continue with his stroy . ",4
"Without RemorseThis is my favorite Tom Clancy book . Makes you want to dress up as a hobo and join in the crusade.Gunner September 2007 ",4
"Another sideshow attraction to the Ryan series which tells the background of John Clark and how he came to be the most trusted field operative in the Ryan series . Excellent concept to provide answers to one of the most mysterious characters in contemporary spy novels . Book can be somewhat over the top graphically but serves a purpose in the story . Must read for any John Clark fan . ",3
"In what is easily the best book I 've ever read Tom Clancy creates a cast of characters that trancend the series of Jack Ryan.John Kelly In what is easily the best book I 've ever read Tom Clancy creates a cast of characters that trancend the series of Jack Ryan.John Kelly the main character of the novel is easily the most astounding person I 've ever read about . From his times in Vietnam as part of the Third Special Operation Group to the harrowing tale embodying the main plot of Without Remorse you just ca n't help but be taken away with the perfect machismo and badassness of the character.The storyline in itself is excellent keeping you turning the pages as the action comes hard and fast packaged with much of Clancy 's trademark informative prose.I would reccomend to all who love a good action military read . ",4
"Superior read . Tom Clancy at his best . Exciting and a good mystery with lots of action . The origin of John Clark ! ",4
"Read it for the second time and enjoyed it as much as the first time.A fast moving page turner . Typical Clancy.Outstanding ",4
"I had read Without Remorse more than ten years ago and came upon it again as an audiobook . I do a lot of driving and find a story well researched well written and well read a pleasure that makes the investment in driving time easy . Traffic jams and delays are now endurable.John Clark is a man focused upon Justice . He makes the effort to identify the problem and those responsible then sets about to correct the situation without lawyers . The world needs more men like John Clark . ",4
"Great character development . Straight forward believable plot . Good assembly of reoccurring characters from other Clancy Books . Very tough to put down . ",4
"I 've read most all of Mr. Clancy 's novels and John Clark is probably my favorite character in all of his books . This novel explains Clark 's whole existence in a very real and believable way so any reader that picks up a Jack Ryan or Rainbow Six Novel will be well informed not only about Mr. Clark but several other main characters in a lot of other novels as well without having to scratch there heads trying to figure out where these particular people come from . Plus it 's a great standalone novel all by itself . ",4
"I would not recommend this book . As nearly all Clancy books it is looooong . In this book Clancy attempts to develop the history of the character John Clark aka John Kelly . But unfortunately Clancy has become such a big star in the publishing industry that he obviously can trump the suggestions of a good editor . And this book woefully needs an editor ANY editor.The story John Kelly looses his wife to an automobile accident then picks up with a girl he meets hitchhiking who is killed by her former pimp setting Kelly off on a killing rage . Intertwined with this story is another largely superfluous story of Kelly as the point man in a Vietnam prisoner rescue operation . This latter less interesting and predictable story takes up over half of the book.The story line of Kelly seeking revenge is a good albeit hackneyed one and he should have run with this one . The end to my mind was tortuously unbelievable . I simply do not believe that Kelly 's character would have acknowledged these crimes particularly since he went to such great lengths to protect himself . Kelly also gets improbably sloppy at the end which to my mind was completely out of character.This will be my last Clancy book . The promise revealed in The Hunt for Red October and developed in subsequent novels seems to have run aground . ",2
"The enigmatic Mr. Clark was always my favorite character of the Ryan canon and this book takes him back to his beginnings in the 1960s . Really Clancy 's only historical novel this thriller is probably his most emotional with a story that pulls you into a vengeful thrill ride.It 's been a common ploy in thriller fiction the highly trained soldier going after the criminals who murdered his girlfriend but no one does it in such a visceral manner as Clancy in Without Remorse . I 've read the book probably five times since it came out and it never gets old . Highly recommended . ",4
"I WAS GOING TO PERU AND NEEDED A LONG BOOK THICK . I HAD NEVER READ ANY OF CLANCY 'S BOOKS BUT HECK I 'D SEEN HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER THE MOVIE AND IT WAS N'T HALF BAD . CLANCY 'S POPULAR A BESTSELLING AUTHOR . HOW FAR WRONG COULD I GO ? PRETTY FAR APPARENTLY . WHAT A TURKEY . INFANTLE . THE GRAMMER WAS HORRIBLE . BUT I READ THE GLOWING REVIEWS OF THIS BOOK AND I WONDER WHAT IS A REVIEW ? WHAT DOES IT MEAN ? IT WAS THE ONLY BOOK IN MY BAG SO I SLOGGED THROUGH THIS CONSERVATIVE JUVENILE POT BOILER WONDERING WHICH CHARACTER WAS THE DUMBEST . IT WAS LIKE THEY ALL TOOK STUPID PILLS . IT WOULD N'T HAVE MATTERED IF EVERYBODY DIED IN THE END . I WAS CURIOUS OFTEN ABOUT WHO WAS PROOFREADING THIS FIFTH GRADE LEVEL ATTEMPT AT STORY TELLING . WHAT A MESS . IT WENT ON AND ON AND ON . IN CONTRAST IF I CAN RELATE SOMETHING POSITIVE J. F. FREEDMAN 'S AGAINST THE WIND SAME TYPE OF STORY WO N'T WASTE YOUR TIME . ",0
"This should be a movie and William Defoe has just got to play KellyClark ! This is a definate departure for Clancy to focus closely on a single plot line but he pulls it off expertly . If you have n't read the earlier books read them first . This one is intended to fill in the dark background of the character you 've already come to appreciate and what a dark background it is ! And who would n't want to step into his shoes vicariously brutally deal with some of the scum in the world without any remorse and get away with it all ? Sign me up ! ",4
"For me Without Remorse is Clancy 's breakthrough . He takes his characters emotionally to the next level . Predictably the action and wartime policy intrigue feature prominently as John Kelly aka Clark is dispatched to Vietnam to free a POW . But the other half of the novel is about his vendetta against a crime syndicate in Baltimore . What did they do to face the wrath of this oneman wrecking crew ? They killed a girl who nurtured him in a time of need . Kelly 's revenge is brutal amd just . There 's an interrogation scene halfway through the book involving a decompression chamber that pushes the emotional boundaries of the novel and moved me to tears . The ending chase sequence explains how Kelly reemerges as Clark later in the Ryanverse timeline . ",4
"This is the first book on the timeline that would be considered part of the Jack ryan story . It is about John Kelly clark and how he goes after some bad guy WITHOUT any REMORSE . A great story . Review is for Audio cassette . ",3
"The first thing you notice about 'Without Remorse ' is that it is NOT a Jack Ryan adventure in fact he is nowhere to be found within the many pages of this book . Clancy took a gamble on this knowing it would ultimately turn off some of his die hard Ryan fans but if you pass this one up you are losing out on quite a literary adventure . Only John Clark comes close to being as well developed as Ryanbut we have no idea about how he came to be who he is today and more important the WHY ? 'Without Remorse ' tells John 's tale which is far from a pretty one.John 's tale begins during the Vietnam War and moves from one continent to another and show 's us what John is made of and why . He never set out to be John Clark not his real name in fact the events which transpire and ultimately force John to do the unthinkable are horrific indeed but it makes you wonder what you would do given the same circumstances I would n't go so far as to say I would actually do the same but would I entertain the thought ? Yeah sure . What limits do we have as humans ? We get to find out Clarks here in a decidedly different story than what we have come to expect from Clancy and easily one of the better novels he has produced . I also very much enjoyed 'Rainbow Six ' which seemed to be panned by many but hey I 'm a BIG John Clark fan 'Without Remorse ' is a worthy addition to Clancy 's great collection of works and very worthwhile to buy and read . ",4
"Finally John Clark 's story is told and it is truly remarkable . Clancy was in rare form when he put this one together . Kind of a blend of THE TERMINATOR and DEATH WISH . I loved every minute of reading time that went into this book . One of the best backstories ever . Highly recommended . ",4
"John Kelly SEAL Vietnam vetern married . Then his wife was killed and his unborn child in an accident . Meets a girl Pam a runaway from a life of abuse prostitution and drug running . He gets her straightened out but in another accident she is tortured raped and killed by the drug dealers she escaped from.Enter his life as John Clark CIA operative with a mission to rescue POWs in Vietnam officially declared dead . Enter his life as John Kelly serial killer of those and others who killed Pam . Enter Sandra a nurse who provides help to another victim of prostituion and drugs who John attempts to rescue . Finally the understanding of John Kelly now John Clark a dangereous enemy who kills for his country both foreign and domestic who kills those enemies who prey on the innocent and totally without remorse.Without Remorse gives us a greater understanding of the forces that drove John Kelly to become a serial killer and his CIA identity of John Clark to operate as he does . Even more so we understand the position of his future wife . Sandra is a nurse dedicated to the art of healing . How can she resolve the conflict between John and his killing with her desire to heal ? ",4
"While I usually do not read fiction I was pleasantly surprised by how good this novel is.The novel follows the story of John Kelly also known as Mr. Clark . Kelly is an exNavy SEAL who is now an underwater demolitionist . The book takes place in the early 1970 's during the fading years of the Vietnam War . Kelly 's wife is killed in an automobile accident . The book begins by describing his dealing with the loss of his wife . Kelly then falls in love with Pam a prostitute who has escaped from her pimp who works for an up and coming drug lord . The pimpdrug lord has a hit done on Kelly and kidnaps Pam . Though Kelly is left for dead he is taken to the hospital and recovers . In the meantime Pam is brutally tortured and murdered . As I do not want to give away the rest of the book all I will say is that the rest of the book deals with vigilante justice.The length of the book is extremely intimidating when you first start reading . However the book reads like an excellent movie . The story is told from three main viewpoints Kelly 's the police and the drug ring 's . Clancy does an excellent job of tying the three views of the same story together at the end . The chapters get a little lengthy at times thus not leaving a convenient place to stop reading.I would highly recommend anyone who likes reading fiction revolving around the military or vigilante justice . The book gets a little lengthy but stick with it . I though the ending was a little predictable but it was still a splendid read . The book had me on the edge of my seat the entire time I read it . ",4
"John Kelly is a former Navy SEAL now a civilian demolitions expert . His pregnant wife is tragically killed in a car accident . As he tries to move on he meets Pam a drugged out hooker who is trying to escape her life and move on . Just when John is falling in love with Pam and trying to help her change her life she is brutally murdered by the drug ring that controlled her and other prostitutes like her . Now John must deal with his anger and compounded sadness . How he chooses to deal with it is highly controversial as he uses his extensive military training to hunt down and take out all of those that are involved with Pam 's death.At the same time the war in Vietnam is raging and numerous American soldiers have been taken prisoner in a secret location and reported dead . The military calls on John and his expertise to plan an extration of these soldiers and reunite them with their families . John Kelly is living a double life both involving cunning strategy and killing . He wrestles with the morality of what he is doing as it compares to the evil people that are his targets.Tom Clancy never disappoints . The plot covers a lot of area but he manages to link the various stories together and keep the reader interested . The book goes on a bit too long at times and could probably have benefitted from being trimmed down . But overall the pages turn and make for a facinating story . The action is intense on every page and well worth the lengthy read . ",3
"Without Remorse is by far my favorite Tom Clancy novel . John Kelly also known in later novels as John Clark is a former Navy SEAL who does a good deed for a drifter Pam who turns out to be a runaway sex slaveprostitute and he ends up falling in love with her . He helps her beat her drug addiction and learn to respect herself . They make a special life together.When Pam makes up her mind to go to the police with the information she has on the men who kidnapped and enslaved her she does so in order to help the other girls still in captivity . Unfortunately she is seen and recognized by her former captors before she can talk to the police.They shoot John and recapture Pam.When John recovers in the hospital and discovers that the woman he fell in love with has been brutally raped tortured and murderedher body even being displayed in public as a warning he sets off on a quest for justice and revenge . The methods he uses to exact his revenge are imaginative and well described.I 've already said that this is my favorite Clancy novel . It is also my favorite revenge story . I 've read it numerous times and I 'm sure I will read it several times more . This is a good place to start if you have n't read anything by Clancy before . ",4
"The line between social justice and vigilantism can be a fine one as Clancy clearly demonstrates in this noholdsbarred thriller detailing the preCIA life of recurring character John Kelly a.k.a . John Clark.Kelly still grieving the loss of his wife meets an exciting young woman with whom he develops an instant chemistry . Within just a few days of inviting Pam onboard his boat and getting to know her he falls head over heels in lovebut not before discovering that she 's a drug addict and a former prostitute . Undeterred Kelly sets out to cure Pam of her addictions . As part of the healing process Kelly takes Pam back to the streets of Baltimore . As extremely bad luck would have it Pam is recognized by her former pimp who shoots Kelly and kidnaps the girl . Days later Kelly turns up in a hospital and Pam turns up dead . Kelly vows to rehabilitate himself and avenge Pam 's murder eventually drawing on his considerable skills as a former Navy SEAL and embarking on a campaign of terror against the city 's drug world that has cops scratching their heads and dealers quaking in their dark alleys.Meanwhile in wartorn Vietnam a U.S. spy drone snaps a photo of a highranking military official who is supposed to be deada man with knowledge that could be extremely beneficial to America 's enemies . The Pentagon 's top brass decides to stage a rescue and who better to lead the mission than former SEAL John Kelly ? Now torn between his desire to punish his girlfriend 's murderers and his loyalty to his country Kelly has to decide which mission is more important . The choice he makes will affect not only the course of Kelly 's life but the very condition of his soul.The literary device of hero vs. human evil is a familiar one and the ethical questions the book raises are worth considering . As with many of this author 's novels caution is required the book contains accounts of torture physical and emotional abuse drug use and war violence . The first chapter contains a relatively mild sex scene and bad language is used throughout . But Clancy is a master of political and military intrigue and the objectionable material is included not for its own sake but to support the compelling story and believable characters . Readers who are able to cheer for an antihero with a conscience will love Without Remorse . ",4
"This is where is all starts in the series . This book will catch your attention and you wo n't want to put it down . Its very deep and you get to know some of the characters we know in later books in their early life . ",4
"This is the fifth time I 've read Without Remorse so that should tell you something ! In my opinion it was Clancy 's best novel . ",4
"An exciting story of a serial killer vigilante as American super hero in a black and white world of myopic tunnel vision . If you do n't mind troglydyte heroes who are predominantly white and unidimensional villains who are predominantly ethnic or racial minorities than this book is for you . ",0
"This is great recreation reading . I get drawn in to the character and when I 'm done with the book I feel satisfied with my reading time . I guess you could say that I am a great fan of this type of plot and nonfiction material . ",4
"This novel was written during a period when Clancy was in The Zone . This novel provides the reader with a background of a character that we know from previous novels as John Clark . Clark an exNavy Seal who possesses a great deal of intelligence and ice water in his veins when confronted with evil . He shows absolutely no remorse and offers no apologies for exterminating the criminals who wreak havoc on society . This is a very dark novel with extremely graphic descriptions of gratuitous violence coupled with excessive profanity . However the book is also a great yarn with intricate subplots and places the reader in the midst of the action that took place during the Viet Nam War era . What 's interesting is that Jack Ryan son of a homicide detective makes a cameo appearance as a college senior and discusses career options with his dad.A shame that this book was never made into a movie . It would have been awesome . ",4
"Im really not a huge Clancy fanI liked Rainbow six and clear and present danger but the others I read were very average and boringbut Without Remorse is probably my favorite book of all time.I have read it 3 times and it is enjoyable from begining to end.If they only could of done a movie of it.But like the other movies they would of messed it up . ",4
"I could n't read Tom Clancy 's Red October or any of his other books . They were just too detailed on the different ships the Navy has bombs etc . However Without Remorse is more character driven and less technical . It is a fast paced good story . I really enjoyed this book . ",0
"I thought I had read all of Clancy 's books however I found this one by accident on Amazon and believe it was one of his best works . Loved the story line with a fantastic unexpected ending . This is a must read . ",4
"I continue to think that Clancy is a quality author and I will read anything he not the team writes . This is no exception . I really liked the development of Mr. Clark he is now the standard for the anti hero . The story was also another good one our hero saying enough is enough and putting his foot down . You get everything you expect from one of his books great characters with a lot of development a strong story line many sub plots that come together in the end and details lots of details about weapons tactics and anything else guys like to talk or read about . I felt like going out and kicking a little drug dealer butt myself after finishing the book . ",4
"This story is set in Tom Clancy 's Jack Ryan series . By the chronology of that series it is the first book but should NOT be read first . In order to appreciate its finer points readers should be familiar with CIA operative John Clark and his behindthescenes role . This is John Clark 's backstory.John Clark was once John Kelly a Navy SEAL and Vietnam veteran . He sails dives and enjoys life . When his girlfriend is killed by drug dealers John is devastated . His anguish turns to rage as he learns about the trafficking in drugs and human lives in his city unnoticed by John and almost everyone else . He puts his combat skills back to work as he stalks and kills violent criminals . He also begins working for the Federal government on very similar missions . It becomes increasingly likely that his two lives will collide.This is an excellent book which explains much about the skills attitudes and loyalties John Clark demonstrates throughout the Jack Ryan series . Several familiar faces appear briefly in the story making intriguing connections . Wellread Tom Clancy fans will enjoy these revelations but they are not necessary to follow the story . The story itself is a good one but has some very disturbing events and implications . Not for the squeamish . ",4
"I 've read all the Jack Ryan books and this one does not dissapoint . Hunt for Red October was just the begining for me . I have read all the Ryan books . ",4
"For Clancy lovers the names Clark and Ryan are not new . What is new though is this book which strays from Ryan completely and gives readers the background of Clancy 's most mysterious character . This book in my opinion is nothing like any of the other Clancy tales to date . It was published right in between some of Clancy 's most popular books yet has nothing to do with any of them . It takes place in the WashingtonBaltimore area and Vietnam and is a great thriller . There is no technical mumbojumbo that is typically found in Clancy 's works . It 's all action of the best kind . If you have never before read one of Tom Clancy 's books I highly recommend this one as your first . It 's a great book that will be enjoyed by all and read over again.. I 've already read it twice ! ! Enjoy ! ",4
"I thought this was a great book . It was full of suspense and action and true to Clancy gave us an inside view of how Clark deals with an urban problem . ",3
"Clancy should stick with the techno stuff . His attempt to show the more human side of his characters flops . Kelly and every other character is onedimensional . It is simply too trite that a man could fall instantly in love with a hitchhiker without our having any hint of what he really sees in her then spend the rest of the book obsessed with avenging her death . Not that the guys did n't deserve it mind you . He does play with the gray areas of justifiable actions outside the law kind of a human superhero vigilante for whom police are probably grateful behind closed doors . But this book has the literary depth of your average Sergeant Fury comic book . ",0
"so much that he has read it about 10 times over the years . He got rid of his book collection when we moved to Maryland from California and has been slowly replacing them . But this book he wants me to read because it is all taking place right here in Maryland . FunI hope ",4
"Clancy cleared the bar that he set himself easily with this one . He has writtencowrittenconsulted on some dogs but I 've always been a fan . The attention and commitment to detail are superb as are his sources obviously . I 've read and reread most of his books more than twice and all of them to date at least once . This is where John Kelly Clark hits the scene and his story is world class REAL and emotional even for Mission Impossible fiction . There 's nothing in Clancy 's books that could n't happen even when not at his best . You can read the back cover for the storyline but I promise that once you open the front cover you wo n't stop until you 've read everything in between . Cussler Ted Bell W.E.B Griffin Dan BrownI read them too but Tom Clancy at worst is a great read . And his best is THE best and this is one of them . ",4
"In this book we finally get to know Mr. Clark . Clancy unlike he does in his other books focuses a lot on a love story which is the basis for the action in this book . Although Mr. Clark 's military skills are talked about in great description it is not another military he ends up using them against . His fight is against drug dealers and pimps and the story is great . One has to read it to understand because this is not the typical love story in fact it is a love story that you would think Clancy would write . Kudo 's to Clancy on his endeavor out of the normal military novel . I hope we get more books focusing on Mr. Clark and his group Rainbow Six another great Clancy book . ",4
"While I find it a bit of a stretch to say this is part of the Jack Ryan story it does provide the complete back story to one of the best characters in the Jack Ryan story line Mr. Clark . The story blends a human story with classic Clancy international politics and espionage better than any of his other works . The read is enjoyable with multiple story lines running in parallel and converging with proper closer . I miss the original cover art but this is Clancy at his all around best . ",4
"Tom Clancy 's strength has been writing the technothriller . The weak points in his books have been characterizations and dialog especially casual conversation . All of his characters have been one dimensional wooden stereotypes . Trying to expand more on wooden characters is one of the reasons his Executive Orders is so bad one of many reasons.Without Remorse is a basic actionrevenge novel . It is set in the low tech drug world . It relies much more on character and emotions . Some interest dimension and character development is given to the hero by evolving him into a revenge machine without remorse . But that is the only interesting aspect of the hero and Clancy ends up cheapening it by later glorifying it in this book and Executive Orders . The other characters in the book are n't very interesting . Clancy is very awkard with the love stories and emotions and some of it is just embarrassing.But Clancy is n't the only action writer that has problems with character development Ludlum is only mildly better . What 's really important is the book exciting ? The ending is pretty good and there are a few good action sequences in the middle . But there are long boring stretches while Clancy tries in vain to develop the characters.This book is about the origins of Kelly the CIA agent who appears in most of the Jack Ryan books . I started reading Debt of Honor but stopped when I heard about this book . I switched to Without Remorse because I thought that there might be important insights in this book that lead up to the later books . It turned out that there were no important revelations here and it really has no impact on the later stories . For someone who continues to follow the Jack Ryan series this book might be a must read . But I may have given up on Clancy after the horrible Executive Orders and there are many writers who do this type of story better . ",1
"This book is great . It kept me wanting to turn the page after page . The beginning was alittle slow but that is in all books . It picked up the pace . Tom Clancy did a great job and whenever i think of this book I think of a movie . That 's how good he was at describing everything . I still think I watched a movie and not read a book . Great Job here Mr. Clancy ",4
"A friend recommended this to me saying Really amazing suspsensethriller about a man whose girlfriend is killed so he goes on a vengeance spree to avenge her death and kill the drug dealers involved.By that description this sounded really promising . Who does n't love a good vengeance tale ? And killing off the scum of the earth ? Even better . I was really shocked when I hated this bookand I do n't mean disliked I really HATED this book . Sorry Tom Clancy I 'm sure you 're someone I 'd love to have a beer with in real life and you 've written some great novels but this just is n't one of them.Just about every negative review mentions the overlong sequence about Clancy 's character building a silencer for his gun . Yes that was tedious to read even for someone who loves guns . The other group of negative reviewers are the liberal types who find vengeance stories appalling anyway . However what was more tedious to me was reading about some selfimportant idiot picking up a hooker off the street falling in love with her and nursing her and then attempting vengeance for her after a romance not even remotely believable.I 've known men who have this fantasyand that fantasy is to find a weak beautiful woman who will do whatever the hell he wants her to do and will shut up . They 're also the type that insist on marrying foreign women I have to laugh when their foreign wife makes American friends watches American TV etc . and becomes exactly what they always hated anyway . If you 've ever hung out with one of these ungentlemen then you know EXACTLY the type I 'm talking about and you know Kelly is exactly this type . Kelly 's girlfriend is completely onedimensional . No personality whatsoeverbut probably plenty of venereal diseases if you 're into that kind of thing I guess . Kelly seems to be one of those guys who hate women and really really hate women with any intelligence whatsoever . I 've never read a character quite so flat as Pam Kelly 's hookerturnedgirlfriend . She 's not a gal you could take out for coffee and the best conversation of your life.The whore just ends up getting them in more trouble of course . I do n't think it is a spoiler to say she is killed but here is where the story falls completely flat . In order for the whole vengeance scenerio to work out we the reader actually have to CARE that the character was killed . Pardon me for being crass enough to say that I just do n't care about dead previously drugaddicted hookers with no personalities who are taken in by some guy who talks down to them as if they are five . When Pam Kelly 's girlfriend finally bites the big one there is no sadness in it . Kelly 's wife had died 6 months priorand instead of mourning her like a gentleman we find out he is cavorting with hookers throughout that six months and then picked up this other piece of trash by the side of the road.Clancy wrongfully assumes we 're going to believe a vengeance scenerio where a man goes on a killing spree over a whore he treated like a piece of furniture anyway . Maybe if it was his dead WIFE rather than the hooker the story would have had some meaning behind it held some water . Instead the premise is set up and I just found myself caring less and less the deeper I got into this book the torture scenes etc . If you 're going to make someone seek vengeance quite the way Kelly does you 'd better make it fully 100 % believable and justified . In this case there was nothing . Seriously ? Clancy ? Is that the best you could do ? Why not his wife ? His daughter ? His sister ? There has to be SOME personal connection to your cause to carry a plot like this out and there is NONE ! It has to be a cause that the reader can connect with as well . It 's got to make your blood boil just READING about itbut alas a whore who CHOSE her lifestyle CHOSE to use drugs and CHOSE to be a waste of space . That 's who you choose as our flaming cross ? Then you ca n't even show why she 's worth it ? I just did n't find it believable at all and I like reading about men of noble character and strength the type of men you wo n't find cavorting with hookers shamelessly . Read something by James Alexander Thom who writes more about the true character of a hero without traversing through cess pools of society caused by people who chose to live that lifestyle . ",0
"I had read this book when it first came out almost 20 years ago . This is a reread of my favorite Clancey novel a tribute to one of the best writers of this genre . The tough guy novels of today seem bland by comparison . Today it is about Terrorism and the Middle East . Back then it was about Vietnam and the Soviets . This is masterful story telling . ",4
"Without Remorse is the page turner to beat all page turners . I brought this book to Korea with me the first time I went there knowing that I 'd have some spare time at the end of a six week tour there . I was expecting to maybe read half of the book in that time and finish it when I came home . No way ! Once I started this book it was done in less that 48 hours . You simply can not put this one down for something as trivial as sleeping or eating . Tom Clancy goes into great detail giving the whole backstory on John KellyClark . Once you 've read this book you 'll be thinking back on all that came before and after it saying to yourself this is how and why John Clark does what he does . It is extremely heart wrenching to read what happens to Pam and how John Clark deals with it . You feel as if you want to be there with him ready to take out some vigilante justice . I had originally skipped this one and read his next novel what a mistake that was . Even though I knew that John Clark was in the next novel I kept saying a prayer hoping he does n't get killed in this one . That is how good a writer Tom Clancy is . I do n't know if there 's such a thing as a writer 's hall of fame if not there should be one with Tom Clancy right there at the top . Thank you very much to Tom Clancy for an absolutely great read ! ",4
"I ordered this book to be mailed to my son in a correctional institution he thought it was VERY good . ",4
"Maybe it gets to the exciting part somewhere but all I 've seen so far is melodrama and weird situations like when the girl who the main character picks up meets two strangers that are man and wife doctors she allows the wife to give her a physical exposing that she was sexually brutalized and on drugs ! Yeah sure ! And then this dock blabs it all to her new boyfriend then the main character after sleeping with her for several days only after the doc 's report notices the welt scars on her back ! Umm I do n't think so.And all this while the main character is bawling about his wife who passed away 6 months prior and the only action we get from him is him repairing the propellers on the doctors ' boat ! I am glad amazon has a lenient return policy . Four days of on and off reading and still no action gets this thing returned ! ",0
"I fully admit it took me a while to get over my initial shock that Tom Clancy had written a book that focused not on Jack Ryan but on John Clark . While I did not enjoy this book as much the two Jack Ryan books that came before or after it Without Remorse is still a worthwhile effort and I consider it superior to Clancy 's most recent novel The Bear and the Dragon . This is not a story driven by technology but by the intense desire of a man to have the world make sense . It is a more intimate story that we are used to from Clancy.Actually Without Remorse represents a logical extension of one of Tom Clancy 's strengths which is the depth of background he provides his characters . Think of how he first presents Red Wegner and Ding Chavez in Clear and Present Danger . Wegner appears so far only in that one book while Chavez has become a major supporting character in the Clancy oeuvre . Yet Clancy basically uses an entire chapter to give the background on each character . In Without Remorse Clancy lays out the entire back story of John Kelly the man who would become better known to us as John Clark . Clancy has done this before with Patriot Games where we find out what the oblique Sir John references in The Hunt for Red October were all about . Now he does the same for Clark who has really replaced Robbie as the character carrying the main subplot in the Ryan books.Beware the fury of a patient man . The quote appearing in the frontpiece of the novel is from John Dryden yes the nasty little boy in Shakespeare in Love in one of that movies best injokes and it concisely sums up the moral of this particular story . Six months after the accidental death of his pregnant wife John Kelly pulls over and picks up a young girl standing by the side of the road . This spontaneous act is very much out of character for Kelly and the decision turns out to be both fortuitous and tragic . Kelly finds comfort with Pam only to see her killed by the drug dealers from whom she was escaping . However Without Remorse is more than a revenge story because at its heart it is the story of a man finding himself and his purpose in life . The other major plot line has to do with the former SEAL being recruited by Admiral James Greer for a rescue mission of American P.O.W.s held in North Vietnam . This book provides all the pieces to the puzzle that has been John Clark in the Jack Ryan novels.Without Remorse is also unusual because there are strong romantic elements in the story as Kelly finds not only his purpose in life but the ability to love again . The fusion of these two things is clearly crucial to the development of the character . This is clearly the most intimate of Clancy 's books which is probably even more of a change of pace than having a different main character . Ironically I find myself rereading the parts where Kelly deals with the pain of losing the women he loves more than the parts where he takes vengeance upon those responsible . The book does contain some of the more brutal scenes by Clancy made more intense because they are acted out on the streets of America not on some back alley in Russia or Iran . Kelly is clearly a vigilante in this book and that is certainly a troublesome description for a character we do not see as being in the Dirty Harry mold.Helpful Hint Do not skim pages or you will miss a brief appearance by Jack Ryan although his father is indeed a key character in the story . There are also several supporting characters who will reappear older and wiser in the Ryan novels . And a final personal note I have never seen Willem Dafoe as Clark . Actually I have always thought of him as a younger Don Davis who is much more the Teddy Bear . Give up ? Davis played Major Briggs in Twin Peaks . ",3
"This is a tedious bythenumbers revenge fantasy written by Clancy or Clancy 's team of writers it 's hard to tell which I suspect his better and earlier books were his and his alone . In a nutshell Jack Ryan is a former Navy SEAL badass sound familiar yet ? who falls for a junkie hooker who then gets killed by her drug dealer . So he skulks around Baltimore executing people connected with her murder.This story has been done better by countless other writers ",1
"Classic Clancya real thriller . I had previously read in in hardback when it first came out but downloaded it to my Kindle to reread I have gotten to the point where I can hardly stand to read hardcopy books anymore because I am so enamored of my Kindle ",4
"For those of us that avoid interactions that are a tad towards violent behaviors Clancy has a way of allowing those of us to sublimate without harming anyone or being harmed Action adventure and many times a good result after a time of severe difficulty ",3
"Tom Clancy once again writes another great book . His focus is on one character in this book . So this would be a good book to start with if you have never read Clancy before . If you like his works this is a must . I could not put it down . This is a wounderfully developed character . This could also be titled The making of a great agent . ",4
"I loved this book and it remains one if not THE favourite CLANCY book I 've read . It is a lot smaller in scale to the rest of his novels and thats why I think I like it so much . It was such an easy read compared to the bricklike Executive Orders and the tension is stratospherically high at the end of the book but in a good way unlike the painstaking ending of SUM OF ALL FEARS where you just want to reach in and beat The President and his National Security Advisor to death for being so dumb for soooo long ! ! ! The beauty about this book is that you dont have to have read any other Clancy book before either . It 's totally self contained and thats the way I like it . ",4
"I just finished reading this book for the second time more than ten years after the first . My memories of the first read were the things having to do with KellyClark his reaction to Pam 's death his killing rampage and simultaneous kindness toward victims the rescue mission in Vietnam and of course the incident that sums up who KellyClark is in my mind his encounter with Pierre Lamarck Why are you doing this ? Practice . All was as riveting this time as the first time . But at the same time several things stood out to me this time that had n't had as much of an impact the first time.One was the development of other characters besides KellyClark who figure in the later i.e . set later in time Clancy novels . One was Bob Ritter . He was presented as somewhat of a scumbag in the movie version of Clear and Present Danger . Here we see him as the champion of keeping faith the idea that if America wo n't take care of the people that serve her people wo n't want to serve her . It makes the Ritter of Clear and Present Danger the book seem much more human as he struggles with the conflict between loyalty to superiors and loyalty to subordinates.And there 's Sandy O'Toole later of course Sandy Clark . One wonders what sort of woman would want to be the wife of someone like Clark . Here we see her struggles with her mixed emotions and the events that lead her to finally stand behind him wholeheartedly . And finally Emmet Ryan . Although no longer living by the time Jack embarks on his CIA career Jack 's respect for him is never far from the foreground and here we get an indepth look at some of the thought processes of the man who was the primary formative influence upon the future president.Also as a devout conservative Christian myself I am always sensitive to the portrayal of religious people too often anyone who takes hisher religion seriously is portrayed with tired caricatures and stereotypes . Not the case here . Pam Madden 's father resembles the usual stereotype closedminded intolerant unforgiving except that he 's not presented as a religious person but as one who is into the form of religion but not the substance . That 's fair.In contrast to Mr. Madden we have Rev . Meyer the pastor of one of the female victims . He is presented as one who does indeed take his religion and his God seriously . He is certainly not without his weaknesses and struggles but as a former minister myself I have to say that the thought processes depicted for him are much the same as I 'm sure I would go through under similar circumstances . And we have Robin Zacharias I 'm not a Mormon so I ca n't speak for them in evaluating his portrayal . But if I look at Colonel Zacharias not specifically as a Mormon but just as a man who takes his religion seriously enough to be at the center of his consciousness even in a secular career I have to consider the portrayal sympathetic and fair . ",4
"In my opinion this is one of Tom Clancy 's best works . The back story on John Clark particularly his early history in the SEALs the CIA and why he had to change his identity are all fascinating caveats of this book . You really feel for the hardships which the character faces which are starkly different from those of Jack Ryan . I highly recommend reading this whether you are a Clancy fan or not . ",4
"Really enjoyed this book even if it was a branch off of the major plot lines of Clancy 's other books . Found it to be one of the best books in the Jack Ryan series . ",3
"It 's been a long time since I 've read any of Tom Clancy 's books I could n't put this one down and look forward to reading many more . ",4
"First I must say that I rarely give a book 5 stars especially fiction but Mr. Clancy has created one of the most intriguing books I have read . The plots characters and dialogue are simply exceptional and for the first time with one of Clancy 's novels I can honestly say that it was n't long enough . This a book that has it all..action fierce characters compassion heartache oh and did I mention ACTION . This will be one of the quickest 750 page reads you will ever have ! ",4
"The master storyteller has slipped a cog in this disagreable book about disagreable people.This is the backstory of John Clark general doer of necessary but unpleasant acts in Jack Ryan 's sphere.Clancy 's habit of starting paragraphs without immediately naming the character is even more confusing in that he uses flashbacks tucked into the then present time without clueing us in.He goes in great detail into disgusting things done to a couple of lost souls several times.And as usual uses names the same as other people 's with a Ryan who is not Jack and not even a relative . Let 's recommend one of the books of given names written for prospective parents who lack inspiration.I will admit that twothirds of the way through I skipped to the last chapters to get the conclusion without having to wade through any more of all of the above and I 'm a compulsive reader.It does at least introduce Admiral Greer a help to those of us wanting our imaginary world organized.I 'm hoping the next is cohesive and not unnpleasant . ",1
"A book grabs your imagination your intellect and your feelings never shared then shifts the personal paradigms of thought and changes a life . This book is one of those books . Well written often enjoyed and thoroughly enjoyable . The classic thoughts of good vs. evil play across a panorama as foreign as an alien planet and as familiar as a well worn pair of shoes . Thank you Mr. Clancy for a for a grand adventure . ",4
"What makes this book a treat is all the technical information that goes into it . I 'm not a soldier weapons expert or engineer so I found the plethora of information a bit overwhelming but I did come away having learned a few new things . The fact that this book is so wellresearched gives a solidity to the novel that utilizes this information to tell us what is going on and what is being used . This was my first Tom Clancy book and I was not disappointed at all . This tale of revenge and the man who metes it out rather meticulously ca n't help but admire Tom Clancy for detail made for a very enjoyable read . I do feel that the ending was just a bit cheesy I sha n't spoil it for you but it was overall solid and satisfying . Two thumbs up ! ",4
"This is probably my favorite Clancy novel to date ! Just an awesome story about how one of the greatest Clancy characters got his start . This book sucked me in completely and could not help but feel I was there with the characters . ",4
"I am a bit Clancy fan and have read all of his recent stuff . It was great to read one of his first novels . Many of his recurring characters were introduced here and it was interesting to see John Kelly Clark as a young man just starting out . Clancy 's writing has certainly matured over the years but this was a great exciting read . ",3
"to me the only things i did n't like were it seemed too long in some of the chapters there were more than one story . what i mean is you were reading about a and the next minute b and sometimes c. there might be people who do n't mind this but i 'm not a fan . i guess other than my nit picking it was not a bad book . ",3
"A very good read . This book was a very good vehicle to bring us Mr. Clark . The drug lords had no idea thar they had met their worst nightmare . He displayed the killing skills that he he obtained in Vietnam and the C.I.A . to gain vengenance . As all Clancy fans knowMr.Clark came to be one of Jack Ryan 's most trusted as well as capable associates . With this book a star was born . ",4
"Clancy shows a much more human side to his characters in this story . The people are no longer simply soldiers but now they are people with real feelings and values . There is minimal military action in comparison to many earlier Clancy novels however this is actually good . As I read Without Remorse I could almost feel the hurt anguish and later satisfaction of retribution . This book takes you on a real emotional rollercoaster . ",4
"Part Death Wish and part Missing in Action this tells the story of how former navy seal John Kelly became CIA operative John Clark.Set in the waning years of Vietnam we meet recently widowed John Kelly as falls in love with a prostitute . She is brutally murdered by her drug running pimp and most of the book chronicles Kelly 's quest for revenge interspersed with the CIA 's attempt to rescue american POWs from North Vietnam.It 's not a bad book but for most part it is just a standard revenge fantasy . Yes we 'd all like to imagine what a trained special forces operative could do to street gangs but the joy of reading a Tom Clancy book is to be immersed in the world of murky and clandestine geopolitics and this book has very little of that . ",2
"This book is incredible . A real detachment from Clancys normal style of writing . This book had a great degree of emotion . It is a prequel to all his books and i think a running tie for # 1 no techno stuff to bog you down . It really put you in the mind of John Terrance Kelly one of the first navy SEALs . It explains Kellys tranformation into Mr. Clark . A MUST READ ! ",4
"Story line lacked credibility unlike many of Clancy 's books . Reading the book it occurred to me gee he must be getting paid by the word . I was disappointed . ",1
"One of my favorites heroes besides Jack Ryan in Tom Clancy 's books is John Clark . He is a dark figure with a mysterious past . He 's a man admired for his action and his word . He works in black ops but has his own moral code . Clark is a man of action . This book essentially covers Clark 's past . His girlfriend was murdered by Baltimore drug dealers who raped her while slowly asphyxiating her with a plastic bag . A horrific death that profoundly affects Clark . But he does n't mope nor sit idly by . This exSEAL sets out upon a course of justice . He dispenses justice in the only way these murderous scum understand by executing the drug dealers who peddle their death and addiction to adults and children . Clancy uses the story to give us greater backstory on Jack Ryan . His father Emmet Ryan is a detective trying to track down the killer of these drug dealers . But Clark keeps moving forward ` Without Remorse ' . ",4
"It was hard to bring myself to read another Jack Ryan novel especially one as thick as book is . It was a daunting and adventurous feeling before I delved into the book.I was honestly expecting much more action in Vietnam . If you have pictures of Huey helicopters on the cover I 'm expecting some good portion of this book to take place in Vietnam . However most of the book is set in the streets hunting down and killing drug dealers 1 rightousness point ! . Unprotected sex with an escaped prostitute 1 logic point . Training with soldiers in the country 1 cool point . One car chase 1 cliche pointConsidering the length of the book I expected more . I 'd say this is a substandard Clancy book . I want more military and less exsolider kind of stuff . ",2
"Have read all of Tom Clancy 's books several times over . This is one of his main characters John Clark 's life and how he became a legend in the CIA . ",4
"This is a basic reread early Clancy and the origin of John Clark . Back far enough so that it reads like new and as usual hard to put down . ",3
"I am a fan of Tom Clancy novels . I love the twists and turns and the unexpected situations the characters come upon . Without Remorse definitly held up.The things I disliked about the book were things that would make it not a good book . I generally dislike the language a lot of the characters used especially those in the drug rings . But I realize that is probably true to life and must tolerate it in that snese . It does serve the purpose of making me dislike the drug cartels even more than I already did if that 's possible.I felt fear and apprehension while KellyClark returns to VietNam . I understood why he did the things he felt he had to do though terribly wrong in principle . I liked most that KellyClark realized he could not change the world only contribute in some small sense . If he believed he could right all the wrongs in the world it would n't be as compelling to read . But he wants to typify the idea that good people can not stand aside and let evil occur else they are supporting that evil . But he does it with a vigilante type justice that should only be taken up in novels.I relly liked how the Ryan family became involved in the story . If foreshadowed and made me think what would Emmett think knowing his son will soon be under the protection of that 'Invisible Man ' ? Without Remorse is a definite must to those who are Clancy fans . Enjoy . ",3
"Clancy gave us the moral dilemma of trying to decide what is right or wrong and what do we consider justice . He gave us a story that was filled with unjust events happening and the struggle we face when evil crosses into our lives . ",4
"Makes you think about what is happening TODAY in the world in North Korea and China . We invent they copy then use it against our own technology . Hopefully we have some secrets left ! ! ",4
"I love this one . If you ever wondered about Mr. Clark and where he came from and how he ended up where he did this really explains it well . You have to really be a die hard clancy fan to understand what this one is about . If you do n't know any of the Jack Ryan books you wo n't be into this one . This is the beginning of John Clark . ",4
"Although the Jack Ryan fans are used to the books building on one another this one features a side character . This book can be read by anyone who feels that books just ca n't do it for them . I have lent this book to three or four others and the ones who actually read it loved it ! It 's a great book ! You do not have to know about Clancy 's previous books to enjoy this one that alone makes it a good selection in some cases . I would think that this book would be enjoyed by anyone who likes action movies . ",4
"Time to piss off a lot of people but I 've read my share of Clancy and I got ta tell you this He 's not a very good writer ! ! ! Oh my gawd ! ! Someone catch the lady who just fainted . Clancy is a great researcher which is clear in any of his books . Butthat does n't make up for transparent characters and gratuitous plot manipulations . Now . . . I loved Clear and Present Danger and Red Storm Rising Patriot Games was okay and Hunt For Red October was straightout boring in most parts but I read Without Remorse when it first came out and I had hoped that Clancy had taken a Creative Writing course in his spare time between reading technical manuals for Typhoonclass submarines and interviews with the CIA . There is a different voice to Without Remorse . Its straightforward kickass reading . Reads like an early Metallica song . This is the evolution of Mr. Clark Clancy 's spook character . Vietnamera . Someone fcks around with a girl he cares about and all hell breaks loose . This is hands down the best Clancy book I have ever read . It 's like his version of Diry Harry . Great . Too bad he will probably never duplicate its sheer exuberance . Oh well . Read it ! It rox ! ",4
"as with all tom clancy books its a keeper . the man had a real talent for making his books page turners and always interesting . read them all . ",4
"Tom Clancy has always impressed me with his knowledge of weapons mechanics and politics . This book shows a new side of Mr Clancy.This book should be called The Making of Clarke . This book takes you on the journey of Clarkes life . It tells not only of the events and people that change a man but the man himself struggling with the changes . This is a must for Clancy fans ! ",4
"Tom Clancy remains consistently good . It appears that he has an inside track on current events . After reading his books and picking up the morning paper I feel I am reading old news . His characters are great and believable . Great book . ",3
"I sent this book to my brother in prison . He loves to read and he loved reading this book . He wants more . ",4
"Great story line & plot of how John Clark became one his main characters in his others books . The story keeps you in suspense through out the whole book . It ranges from drug dealers in baltimore who killed his girl friend & how he took them down to going to vietnam to rescue downed pilots in a prison camp.John Clark come out as a person who does whatever it takes to get the job done even if it means killing drug dealers to revenge the killing of his girl friend and he kills a lot of them . This is one great book which is hard to put down once you start it . ",4
"This is a good story but it is a little hard for a layman to get the drift of all the situations until you reach past halfway.then it really becomes interesting . Great character descriptions and all in all a good read . ",3
"Tom Clancy is my favorite author . While some of his books are better than others all are worth reading or buying ! ",4
"Not one of Clancy 's best . It seemed to really get boring as the story went on in fact I have not finished it . It just didnt keep my attention . ",2
"This is one of my favorites . One of my favorite types of hero 's are the Antihero variety . Such as the Punisher and Batman . John Clark fits the bill of the typical antihero and Clancy did a wonderful job in creating the transformation character of John Kelly into John Clark.I read this novel after I got hurt and it was a page turner for me it allowed me to take my mind off my present problem . This also served a second purpose which is why I like the antiheros who would not like to have the ability and means to go after people who hurt you and do it very well and call it justice this leap is great because normally we could never do such a thing and when a good novel comes around and does that for us we have to pause and read it . I would never condone such actions in this book but nevertheless it is always fun to see bad guys get what they deserve . And Clancy does an excellent job ! ",4
"I have n't read much Clancy since I was a teen reading Red Storm Rising which I liked a lot . This book however was a disappointment . First of all there 's too many different stories happening at once . It 's got spy tales and intrigue a left wing activist and his KGB contacts police procedural with Det . Ryan Jack Ryan 's dad Mafia connections and drug dealing the usual high tech military aspects with all the jargon and a long drawn out POW rescue attempt in Vietnam . By far the worst and main story is of Navy SealCIA recruit superhero John KellyClark and his bloodthirsty goal of revenge.John 's wife was killed in a tragic car accident 6 months earlier and so he picks up a skinny and beat down looking hitchhiker off the street and takes her to his boat . Almost immediate she pushes him down onto the deck and makes love to him . There is supposedly a connection because each sees each others pain and suffering and understands each other . She does n't mind that the blood type of at least three different men must still be inside her from the previous night of being treated like a dog by her pimps and drug pushers before she escaped . Well soon she is killed and Kelly goes on his revenge rampage by just sneaking up to drug pushers dressed as a drunken hobo and shooting them point blank . Sometimes he does n't even ask any questions of them yet he always knows where to go to next . After one double homicide Kelly is escaping the scene when he sees a nurse being threatened with a knife by a kid who wants money . He quickly dislocates the kids shoulder takes his knife and drives it through his skull . Eventually he gets all the bad guys and suffers no consequences . In fact he gets a job at the CIA.In Clancy 's Vietnam all the aviators and POWs are of course heroes and the Vietnamese are routinely referred to through most of the book as little monkeys and little yellow cowards brutal child rapists and so on . I would have like to have heard some more honesty here . He could mention something about the US propping up a Latin American style terror regime in S. Vietnam . The bombing of S. Vietnam the use of chemical warfare on the land to drive the people into concentration camps and the eventual spread of this war all over to N. Vietnam Cambodia Laos . The US dropped more bombs on Cambodia for instance than the entire Allied forces during the entire second world war . The only character who seems to know this is going on is portrayed as a leftist pot smoking traitor who is forced to commit suicide by Kelly . This book kinda makes me sick the more I think about it and I shall not go on . I know Clancy supports right wing ideology and sometimes is on right wing radio and TV and with this book makes porn for the right . With that said as long as you know this is fantasy and fiction it 's ok because there are good parts to the book . I mostly focused on the bad because I do n't want people to think this is realistic or that the world works like this or that everything is in black and white . For a more realistic perspective of the drug trade on the street level watch the series The Wire and grow some sympathy for people who are trying to survive in a different way of life from you before you cheer some fantasy right wing superhero murdering them . ",1
"Very well written . Probably the best of the Jack Ryan series for me anyway . Already had the soft cover wanted to get an extra for the Kindle and well worth it . ",4
"Having read all of Tom Clancy 's books this is the gem that stands out way above all the rest . It has adventure and danger as do all his books but it deals with love and heartbreak to a degree not seen in his other books . This book is very much about honor and duty sacrifice and betrayal . There are many segments of this book which are unforgettable ! This book is one of a kind in its genre and is well deserving of the label Modern Classic . In this book we see the beginnings of a central character in several Clancy books written earlier but chonologically later in time the enigmatic Mr Clark . No problem is too difficult for Mr Clark in the other novels and now we know why . I strongly encourage all adventureespionage genre fans to read this book as well as other readers looking for a compelling read . This is the best of Tom Clancy and that is saying something very strong indeed . ",4
"Without Remorse gave the backstory on one of the most secretive and coolest character in the Clancy series . Although this installment in the series started off kind off slow it soon became action packed and I think it contained some of the coolest fight scenes in the entire series . Learning about John Clark 's past also made him a much deeper character andn explained much of the mystery in the earlier books ",3
"Only Clancy would make a serial killer the hero of a book . The truly sad part is how many other characters in professional positions look the other way . In the past I have enjoyed Clancy 's works . This one went over the limits good taste . I added the second star because like many Clancy works it is well written . I did finish it . Readers should be cautioned that it is a disturbing concept . In the real world this hero would be seen as an evil villian of Manson or Gacy dimensions.I will admit a personal bias . I am a strong supporter and advocate of local police departments . ",1
"This review refers to the abridged audio book read by David Dukes.The story was entertaining enough but Mr. Dukes ' reading was quite disappointing . He seemed to squeeze all of Mr. Clancy 's many characters into one of a few vocal catagories noble pinched gruff and female . The female voice a toosoft falsetto southern belle was particularly painful . Many passages began with Mr. Dukes reading spoken dialogue which I mistook for a completely unintended character . Also his voice tends to taper off at the ends of his sentances I suppose for dramatic effect . I often got the impression that Mr. Dukes was thinking Man I really sound cool reading this really cool bookFYI On a side note I 'm not a fan of written or verbal profanity and this book has more than its fair share . ",1
"I absolutely could not put this book down ! John KellyJohn Clark Johnnie Boy ! is an awesome character that I would love to see Mr. Clancy use more often . I wo n't detail the plot and spoil it for you but the way John handled the disgusting murder of his love Pam was phenomenal . I think he had the right phylosophy . A great way to clean up the neighborhoods . I enjoyed the human side Mr. Clancy interjected where John was n't paying attention and got shot and the realistic version of a mission screwed up do to a traitor loose lips sink ships . There is another book in this storyline just waiting to be written if not alread as the wrong person died for ruining the mission the traitor is still unknown to those who thought they handled the problem . If this was written already since I 'm just starting to read this author as I do n't like the Splinter Cells I wish somebody would tell me because it will proabably be a great read . ",4
"The book has a clever and interesting story . The problem I have is that when I read a novel I want to immerse myself in the story maybe even soak in it . In the Clancy novel there are several separate but connected through the hero stories that are somewhat overlapping . The author shuffles back and forth in and out of the various story lines gradually bringing them all together at the end . I accept that some may well enjoy this up and down roller coaster technique but for me the warm inside soaking experience I & # 8217m wanting is constantly being ripped apart . Thus for me 2 stars . ",1
"My fourth Clancy so far and I found it to be the most intriguing of them all . Complex characters . Really tense action sequences and unforgettable twists and turns . ",4
"Any Clancy reader knows all about John Clark and stone cold killer describes him best . Now we find out why he 's like he is . Great read makes you want to get right in there with him . Clancy at his best ! ",4
"I have always like Mr. Clancy 's style of writing which has a good balance between factual items and fictional actions . ",3
"I have read 21 fiction books in the last month all written by New York Times best selling Authors . Without Remorse is one of the best books right up there with Red October and Medusa 's Child.The only negative at least for me is there are several places where the book goes the background of things that do not advance the story forward so in those few cases I just speed read for two or three pages.Author of alQaeda Strikes Again ",4
"I 've just finished reading Without Remorse and greatly enjoyed learning more about the character John Kelly AKA John Clark . The story is set in 1970 during the height of the Vietnam Conflict and John Kelly is trying to reestablish a life outside of the armed services after several life shattering tragedies . Despite finding some civilian friends Kelly is largely angered and aloof from life and all it 's unfairness . He finds purpose in life by taking matters into his own hands to punish evildoers both here stateside and once again is the jungles or is it rain forests ? of southeast Asia.This book was published in 1993 and will remain a timeless Clancy masterpiece . ",4
"This is the cream of the crop best of the best of all the thrillerspyfiction novels i 've read . Just a gripping book you do n't want to put down . Mr. Clark is an awesome character . ",4
"I will forever miss Tom Clancy and his great stories . This is one of my favorites ! Could n't put it down . Action packed ! ",4
"Okay first of all before you read this book dont get your hopes up and await a book about constant military garble . This book is unlike any Tom Clancy book I 've readit is a moralistic thriller . If you are interested in books about the salvation of prositutes and a man destined to avenge the death of his girlfriend read this book . But if your looking for a book about Jack Ryan espionage huge military conflicts and other vintage Clancy literature I doubt this book is for you . I hope that Tom 's next book The Bear and the Dragon is better than this ",2
"This is not one of his best but considering what manure or tree wasters he has written this is almost good . I have stopped reading this author he seems to get paid by the word and in later books puts in subplots that have nothing to do with the book so he can make political or religious statements.Buy this book second hand and keep it handy for a camping trip . It will give you something to read on rainy days and will give you a nice supply of toilet paper . ",1
"An exciting story with maybe too much going on . There is the action against a drug gang and the action against a Vietnamese prison camp to save American POWs . Either one could be a book by itself . That said the book was well written and held my interest to the end . But where was Jack Ryan ? I look forward to reading more about Kelly or will it be Clark . Who knowsRichard Ruppel ",3
"The variety of characters situations and environments were impressive . Brad Thor and Vince Flynn fans will really enjoy this . I 'm sorry that as with Mr. Flynn there will be no future books . But I have the rest of the existing ones to read ! ",3
"This could be Clancy 's best . Finally Jack Ryan takes a backseat to the real hero . ",4
"Good intentions do not always work out even when you think they have . Some people have no conscience and are so evil that the normal avenue of justice is just not appropriate . Sometimes you are not really out of your old life and sometime that old life creates new opportunities . John Kelly former Navy Seal has to leave his comfort zone and get back into the thick of things and get a new identity . ",4
"I decided to read all the Jack Ryan books in chronological order instead of the order they were written in and even though this one is listed as a Jack Ryan it 's not . Great story though very exciting . Ca n't wait to read the next one which will actually be a Jack Ryan story ",4
"Not as technical as many of his books but a great story and one of the best reads . ",4
"The book is great reading once finished I searched for others by this author found several . So far I 've read about the book 's star John Kelly AKA John Clark and the many varied adventures . Clancy 's books so far are difficult to put down . Excellent reading . ",4
"Without Remorse is one of Tom Clancy 's greatest novels . Clancy readers were already familiar with the John Clark character from several books Clancy 's Jack Ryan series . Without Remorse explores Clark 's past following the transformation of Vietnam veteranexNavy Seal John Kelly into CIA agent John Clark . This is a fascinating book and although Clancy has passed the torch in the Jack Ryan series to Jack Jr . I 'd love to see some more books featuring John Clark . ",3
"There are two specific reasons I rate this novel so low on the scale . First it is very long tedious and at times laughable as far as plot and story line go . The characters are often cliche and difficult to take seriously and the scenes tend to be forced and come off as phony at best . Not present is the pins and needels descriptive narrative Clancy is so well known for . There are dozens of mistakes and errors and at times the plot gets away only to come back with an anticlimatic closure or worse a very predictable one.Secondly without going as far as accusing Mr. Clancy of plagiarism I will go as far as saying this story virtually mirrors that of Mack Bolan the Executioner written by Don Pendleton nearly 30 years ago . This is the story of the mysterious Mr. Clark who has so often come to the aid of Clancy 's favorite protagonist Jack Ryan . This novel is a prequel of several others in the Ryan series and attempts to explain who and what Clark is . Not only does it fail to do so it takes a bit too much from the original Executioner novel . Worse it does n't have the gritty edge of Don pendleton 's work and it is obvious it was written many years after the Vietnam war and the etire era it is supposed to depict . There are errors of detail and just plain poor development of the times and characters and their interactions.Read this one at your own risk or read it first to be more impressed with previous and latter offerings . Don'tlet it sour you on Tom Clancy 's work . He is a great author but this particular book is a disservice to his loyal readers . ",0
"Although published out of sequence of the other Jack Ryan novels this one answers many questions regarding Mr. Clark and why he is a major character.I highly recommend this novel to anyone collecting the Jack Ryan series ! ",4
"My favorite Clancy novel . John Clark is not someone to cross . This book is hard to put down . Great book . ",4
"The superman character goes from one locale to another saving protitutes and Vietnam war prisoners in a highly contrived plot that seems addressed to midlevel military people and low level boat people . Really not for the highly educated . ",1
"Without remorseAt last we are privy to thr beginning of the relationships of the Ryan family John Clark the CIA and the military . Since John Clark is the go to guy in many of the Ryan stories this book explains a LOT ",4
"I enjoyed this book . Clancy contrasts very well the mood evoked by the Chesapeake Bay for those of us who know it with that of the mean streets of Baltimore . I enjoyed the 2level plot wherein Kelly is dealing with drugdealing dirtbags on the one hand and his mission to Vietnam on the other . The plot was realisticthe professional manner in which Kelly carries out his dual missions was I thought very thoroughly thought out and presented . I enjoyed also his portrayals of the American and Russian spooks and the Russian Air Force colonel . My main complaint with Clancy 's writing occurs when he 's trying to convey tender love thoughts towards the women in Kelly 's lifetoo much syrup of the corn type . I do n't think that subject is Clancy 's forte ' . Otherwise this would make a great movie as good as Clear and Present Danger . ",3
"'Without Remorse is what I like best about Clancy 's stories . Intense a touch of danger good characters a real feel to the details . This one kept me reading past my 'bedtime ' . ",4
"Without RemorseBy Tom ClancyReview by Roger D. NoriegaJohn Clark Mister John Clark . CIA agent extradonaire . The man that the agency turns to when it wants the job done . He is the one that must go into hostile territory to bring someone out to safety . He blends in well speaks several languages and is intelligent and smart rare for the CIA . His only concern is to complete the mission but he suffers the failings of real people he makes mistakes and he does endure bouts of fear fear of failure for the danger is always real and is what he lives for.John Terrance Kelly is an exseal recovering from the loss of his beloved wife and unborn child killed by by a mechanical failure on a semitruck . On a getaway holiday Friday John Kelly meets a hitchhiker and both become attached to each other right quick as both hide demons . He killed for a living and she was killing herself for her living.John discovers that she is a hooker and drug user and decides to clean her up and bring her back to the land of the living . She accepts him and all that he does for her but she still fears those that kept her as a hooker she knows that they can still hurt her as they hurt others namely her fellow captive hookers . Kelly convinces her to speak to the police but before Kelly decides to spend time in her old neighborhood while he was waiting for his secretive appointment with Baltimore 's finest and they meet it with Billy the pimp that kept Pam and the others doing their bidding . Kelly evades them with some slick maneuvering in the muddy lots of the abandoned neighborhood . Turns out that he did n't do enough as Billy and his buddies catch up with them and shot Kelly pointblank with a shotgun take Pam and kill her.Kelly should have died but he survived the wounds and he recovers with a simple mission on his mind avenge the loss of Pam and maybe just maybe save others as well from their certain death at the hands of the drugdealers.We learn what drives him and he realizes he made a mistake a fatal mistake that cost Pam her life . He works out and gets into tiptop shape and he begins the hunt . He learns how the drug dealers operate and he begins to attack the drug dealers in different manners to through off the police of Baltimore . With each calculated kill he moves deeper into the organization and he gains knowledge all to avenge the loss of Pam . He has no other choice live with her loss a loss he caused or avenge her so that she can rest as well as he.On the other side of the world a supersecret remotepiloted drone snaps a picture of an American POW declared dead by the Vietcong being tortured . Operation Boxwood Green is born and the twenty dead POW 's are being targeted for death or worse being sent to Russia to live out their lives in Russia as traitors . John Kelly is called in to look over the information since he has gone in previously on similar missions and he is later recruited to lead the planning of this op to save the lives of those left behind.The operation to save the writtenoff P.O.W . 's is green lighted and Kelly is inserted to scout the location and to have eyes on the camp obvious precautions . Turns out that a leak determines the fate of our P.O.W . 's before they can be saved . . .Kelly returns stateside and continues with his mission to avenge the loss of his beloved Pam . With one break Baltimore 's Finest Detective Emmett Ryan is on to Kelly and they go looking for him . It now becomes a race against the authorities time and the evil that Pam was associated with . . . Kelly has decides to face his demons.This is the story of John Clark . He is in almost every novel from here on out in one way or another but he will never be the primary protagonist again Jack Ryan is the hero but in this chapter we learn who Clark is and why he is so good at what he does . The story is full of disappointments and tragedy as in real life but our heroes are the ones that do n't lay down or quit when the rough waters hit . These are heroes and they are people just like ourselves . This story is a winner.Roger 's rating 3 12 ",2
"Kelly makes some risky decisions that go bad and sink his life into a quagmire . That he takes justice into his own hands that justice is so desperately needed that his actions put him in major dangerthese are what drew me back for a second read . Roger Weston author ofThe Recruiter ",4
"Tom Clancy is a favorite author of mine and this is probably as good as any of the several of his thrillers that I have read . This one has for me a more personal and intense feel to it and I love the way several threads are weaved consistently throughout the whole book . Admittedly for me things were a little confusing at times in the initial stages of the book but that was only very temporary as once the various characters and settings were fleshed out a bit things became very clear . The writing was lean and to the point and the crispness of the action and dialogue kept this novel very appealing and it really kept my attention . I finished it in a very few days whereas a more 'average ' novel sometimes will take me several weeks to finish . That is how intense this one was . Without giving anything away in the form of details I thought that the main protagonist of the novel was very well written and was a very complex character one for whom you could feel intense sympathy admiration and revulsion all at the same time . A key in the timeline of things in the Clancy universe is that though this is a somewhat more recent novel it is actually the prequel to the background for the Jack Ryan novels that were written first . Sort of like Star Wars 12 and 3 were prequels but were made after 45 and 6 . So if you have n't read any of the Jack Ryan centered novels like Red October you might want to start with this one . Highly recommended for Clancy aficionados . ",4
"I have read all of Tom Clancy 's Books and have come to the conclusion that this is his best book . I have enjoyed all of his books BUT this book grabbed a hold of you and does not let go until the last page . This is a change from his normal books . It ususally takes about the first 100200 page to get into the story . ",4
"Another excellent installment into the Jack Ryan universe . This time out Tom Clancy explores the background of one of the coolest sidekicks since Spenser met Hawke . John Clark who has appeared in some of Clancy 's better works such as Clear and Present Danger Sum of All Fears and more finally has his story told . From it 's heart breaking beginnings in the aftermath of Hurricane Camille we meet a man who has the skills the heart and perseverance to do what needs to be done for the greater good . John Clark has always been one of my favorite characters in Clancy 's universe . Jack is the idealist Jim Greer is the wisdom but John Clark has always been the man who holds the sword errr.. gun . An excellent book that tracks the birth of our dark hero from the US to the humid jungles of Vietnam and back again . Along the way we will meet Sandy Dr. Rosen the tragic Pam Emmett Ryan Colonel Zachariahs and another one of my faves Yevgenievich Grishanov AKA Kolya . John is beset by tragedy and spends the remainder of the book trying to find resolution while helping out Jim Greer with a small problem over in The 'Nam . The book reads as part spy novel and part Death Wish homage . It might not be for everyone but I 've always enjoyed the spirit of the dark hero in books . A great read for fans of clancy 's work or of the genre . A must read for all fans of John Clark ! ! ",4
"As with other Clancy novels the abominable attempt at creating dialogue is made tolerable by the superior plot . In this book Clancy has decided to end just about every sentence of dialogue with the word ok and followed with a question mark . I 've never met anyone who ended that many sentences by saying ok ? . I found it somewhat distracting but after a while it becomes easier to ignore . Dialogue excluded I 'd give it 55 . ",4
"Tom Clancy continues to be one of nations premier writers . He give us good believable characters as strong American military . We can only hope the brave men and women who serve our country have the same support from current supervisors . More stories please ! ! ! ! ! ! ",4
"How can you not like a book with a line such as Oh no not in their wildest nightmares have they ever met anyone like me.The name they had given him in Vietnam boiled up from the past.Snake . corny jingoistic call it whatever elitist dribble you want i think this book rocks ! ! Apart from this the research he puts into the book should also be commended.I only hope if at all they choose to make a movie out of this they stay true to the concept of the book . As mechanical engineer i appreciate Mr. Clancy 's work even more because of his minute precision level attention to detail . John Clark 's workshopHemingway meets John Rambo Great fun read gets a bit gory in the beginning then snake takes over ! ! Enjoy it . ",4
"Tom Clancy 's Without Remorse is one of my favorites . Having recently reread it it deserves 5 Full Stars.Without Remorse is terrific story telling made even more interesting if you read Clancy 's other books.Without Remorse is so different from Clancy 's other thrillers because Jack Ryan has no part.Without Remorse tells the life story of mystery man John Kelly and why Kelly eventually becomes trusted long before he knows Jack Ryan . John Kelly evokes the feeling of who is this guy ? John is a retired and decorated Navy SEAL and expert diver wasting his life in sorrow on the Eastern shore of Maryland mourning the loss of his wife to a drunk driver . A chance encounter introduces him to a new young women who is later brutally murdered by the drug trade in the Baltimore area . This is John 's second tragic loss.The story is about a new love in his life her untimely murder due to the nasty drug trade and the murder of many of her friends . It is also the parallel story of John being recruited to lead a rescue mission to recover prisoners in North Vietnam long given up for dead . They have been located and a rescue is contemplatedThe drug lords never met someone like John Kelly on a mission to dole out his justice and retribution without concern for consequences . That does not mean that John is careless as he tracks down everyone involved . He confuses the police at each step . John is unrelenting and sly as he tracks down the drug miscreants responsible . Firearms used as an extensions of Kelly 's body are skillfully used.The story is classic Clancy doing the right thing and doling out expedient justice guides John Kelly at each step of the way . Justice is deeply personal with John Kelly . For Kelly the slow process of legal justice and the compromising ways of politics is not really considered as an alternative . Crooked police and teasonist trusted political leaders eventually also meet their own special justiceAt the end of the mission to rescue US prisoner in Vietnamese prison the CIA recognizes the special qualifies of John Kelly and despite knowing his principled but illegal past gives him a new life . Would this be possible today ? Under any circumstance ? Without Remorse sets up John Kelly 's dependable role in many other Clancy novels . He is reinvented and renamed Clark . ",4
"This was the first Tom Clancy book I ever read and picked it up on someone elses recommendation . I was hooked on this book from the first paragraph.While it is a bit trashy and best sellerish at times I found it impossible to put down . It was the best read I had had in a long time and really enjoyed the unexpected turns and twists of the plotrelentlessly surprising and the richness of the scene descriptions and humble brillience of the indomitable main character.Just be sure you have enough time to read it all because it is hard to put down ! What fun ! ",4
"found parts tedious and skipped hundreds of pages but read the beginning and though skipped many pages read through to where Pam is murdered and the hero is released from hospital then read abit after that then skipped to the end . what I like about it is it tells the story of a young sex slave who temporarily escapes her slavers finds refuge and hope only to be murdered by them in the end . I like that the story tells a believable fictionalized account of what happens to so many young people forced into prostitution and describes the hell of their life detailing how they are victimized and controlled . to me the hero is dumb and his character inconsistently written . dumb because the young woman tells him what she 's been through and where but he drives to that part of town anyway confident he can protect himself and her not asking himself what could happen if he were unable to handle the situation though he knows nothing about the drug world or how it operates . I found his over confidence annoying especially considering the slave pays with her life . I thought his character inconsistently written because the author writes how careful and cautious a sailor he is then has him cockily cruise a drug infested neighborhood which leads to the heroine 's torture and murder . 2 and 12 stars for the believable story of the slave . ",1
"The story does jump around quite alot in this book more so than I am used to in a Clancy novel . It is nice how it all comes together in the end but I think it could have done so with less pages . If you are used to mainlystrictly military style writing then you might not want to consider this book as it has more of a romantic tone to it than other Clancy novels I 've read such as The Bear And The Dragon or Red Rabbit . ",2
"Good story helped answer a lot of JC beginnings and some of his motivation a little long at times but good ",3
"tho a rather old Tom Clancy still so good raw in some parts but gives one an insight into John Clark for other books that include him . Do n't miss reading this book well woth the price exciting entralling terrifi read ! ",4
"I enjoy Clancy 's John Clark character and this book is all about Clark.Book was delivered before the due date and in perfect new condition . ",4
"This was my second and will probably be my last Tom Clancy novel.About 25 years ago I read PATRIOT GAMES which I thought was one of the worst bestsellers I 'd ever read . It had a line in it that still makes me cringe after all these years . Jack Ryan the Teflon super hero is chasing down IRA terrorists in a boat helmed by Prince Charles yes you read that right Prince Charles and after some expert move on the prince 's part Ryan tells him Way to go Your Highness.That has become a catchphrase for me . When I finish an awful action novel I say to myself Way to go Your Highness.But hey Clancy is a very popular writer and maybe I should give him another chance . I grew up on Ian Fleming 's James Bond novels and loved Frederick Forsyth 's classics like THE DAY OF THE JACKAL and THE ODESSA FILE . So I read the 750page book WITHOUT REMORSE.There are actually two different stories here . One is how a former Navy Seal goes after drug dealers in Baltimore . The other is about the rescue of Vietnam POW 's . Each one would 've been enough for a novela good one anywaybut by cramming both into the same story there is no real threat of danger to the main character . To make my point imagine if James Bond was on the heels of Harlem drug dealers and jetting off to pursue diamond smugglers in Las Vegas about halfway through the story . You just know that nothing is going to hurt this guy . And Clancy puts plenty of selfsatisfied chestthumping among the generals and soldiers to underscore it.This is probably the first book I 've read where a time and place America in the Vietnamera 1970s is so completely ignored . I ca n't think of one historical or cultural reference to place this story in the past and I had to keep reminding myself This is supposed to be the 70's.The villains in Clancy 's book are almost laughable . No they do n't have to sound like GOODFELLAS although they try here and there but I noticed that almost all dialogue is clearly from one person . When the hero takes a crackedout hooker he 's cleaned up by her old haunts they spot a bad guy and she says That 's soandso 's lieutenant . Would a crackhead hooker even know what a lieutenant is ? I kept thinking that this was like porn for military minds . How else would you explain two to three pages describing the breakdown of a handgun ? All the hierarchies and posturing and testosterone banter ? But what do I know ? Clancy is so huge that there is n't an editor in the world who can touch his books although the first 100 pages of this book could easily be cut outunless you just love boating . And there is clearly an audience for this . But that does n't make it any good.Way to go Your Highness . ",1
"Tom Clancy has long been a hit and miss author for me . I should say that a lot of it has to do with his incredibly detailed and dense descriptions of everything military . He earns a lot of kudos for his intense knowledge of his subject matter and his ability to base his fiction in frighteningly realistic circumstances but there are times when I just want to get on with the story and not learn about a firing pin and its historical significance to military maneuvers in the east pacific along the way.However Without Remorse is a book so deeply drenched in character building that it swallowed me up with sympathy empathy and then a deep personal need to see Mr. Clark succeed in finding revenge and yes justice for the many wrongs that had been done to him and his . I like many of us had met Mr. Clark in other Clancy tales where he was a cool and efficient military liaison to our government . But within the pages of Without Remorse Tom Clancy brings him to life . Mr. Clark is soon revealed as a man with a history filled with flaws that maybe forgivable but are nonetheless frightening.Back when he was called Kelly Mr. Clark endured the loss of a wife and then another woman who was very important to him . Unfortunately for the men responsible he was n't prepared to accept that second loss . A man with hardearned military skills KellyClark moves no sweeps through this story and leaves us with a sense of nobility as he deals with some of the most revolting segments of our society.Is vigilante justice right ? And can a man with the skills earned through U.S. military Special Forces actually beat law enforcement ? The answers to those questions are sure to surprise you . But please do n't assume this novel is about revenge because it 's not . It 's really about how a man changes in the face of severe personal adversity and about how even the most righteous of causes can somehow get all twisted up.All these big issues aside rest assured Mr. Clark is a man worth meeting and spending time with . His story is n't an easy one but I for one would be pleased to learn that men like him are standing watch all around our world today . ",4
"The overwhelming detail makes the book a ponderous read . The plotting is excellent but the multiple story lines and characters require the reader to keep a cheat sheet of character identities . ",2
"If you have never read any of Clancy 's books before this is not a bad place to start . I have not read many of his works myself but it appears to me that this is chronologically the first to take place in the series on John Clark and Jack Ryan . This book for me was one of those rare effortless reads where the pages turned on their own and I did not want to put it down . I found the story to be completely plausible if you have ever wondered what would have to happen in the life of a normal nonpsychopathic person that would turn them into a highlyskilled coldblooded killer this is the answer . I wo n't give away too many details of the plot but it is basically a revenge motif a decent guy seeking justice against some pretty bad people and the inner struggles he endures while doing this and trying to remain one of the good guys . It kind of reminded me of Batman without the cape and mask and with Batman being an executioner . This is definitely a guys book and if that 's what you are in the mood for you will not waste any time or money with this one . Truly satisfying . ",4
"Like I say about all the books in this series wonderful great read and very close to what really goes on in politics around the world . ",4
"Let me start by saying that I 'm not a big Clancy fan . I read some of his stuff but I find that his books too often drown you in pages of technical details that have little or nothing to do with the actual plot . I find that Clancy is one of the few authors I 've read where I can honestly say the movies are often better than the books . Without Remorse is free from most of these dry details though and that makes it a great book . I think this is because there is simply so much going on that Clancy does n't have time to fit those details anywhere.This book is pretty unique for Clancy in that it explores the history of his recurring CIA character John Clark aka John Kelly . The action and suspense in this book are in my opinion second to none when matched against anything else Clancy has written or at least that I 've read . Clancy paints a great picture of a man with problems who falls for a woman with much bigger problems all while trying to do his job for the CIA . A must read not for only Clancy fans but for anyone who enjoys edge of your seat suspense . ",4
"As a youngster I read and enjoyed Red Storm Rising Hunt for Red October Patriot Games Clear and Present Danger and Cardinal of the Kremlin . I thought that Sum of All Fears was pushing it . But Without Remorse is quite another story . Here Clancy reveals himself to be a real facist . Certainly the victims of KellyClark 's rage are not innocents but they are pointless executed and the book does n't even take the time to explore the effect that this has on Clark or really give him any kind of depth . In Lethal Weapon we only know that Riggs 's wife is dead this alone is enough to make him suicidal and add considerable depth to his character . In Without Remorse the love interest 's death is only exploited to give Clark an excuse to kill everyone . I found Clancy 's obvious animus towards liberals and women distasteful and his lack of respect for human life and even a sense of the impact that taking another person 's life has on your ownwell it is truely baffling to consider how a man who is marginally an intellectual can be that primative . He falls short even of the mark that his other novels set . One is better off with any of his previous works especially Clear and Present Danger or Cardinal of the Kremlin . ",2
"I have read this book so many times I have lost count . If you want backstory with real characterization this is the one Clancy you must read . ",4
"Great book . Makes you want to know more and more about John Clark . Hopefuly Clancy will fill in the gap between this and Rainbow . Fast read . ",4
"This book answers the question of Where did Mr. Clark come from . I always thought he was almost as interesting as Jack Ryan . He is . ",3
"This book was absolutely terrible . I had seen some Clancy movies and thought I would enjoy one of his books . Boy was I wrong . I 'll never read another again . The characters were so one dimensional . The hero was in my opinion a coldblooded killer who was as bad as the psychopaths he was out to get . He actually tortured one of the bad guys to death . It was also apparent that he could n't be without a woman . During the six months between the time his beloved wife died and he met his new love he visited hookers twice . He then fell in love in a matter of hours with a hitchhiker he picked up . Within a week after she was gone he glommed on to the nurse who treated his wounds in the hospital . Everyone in the book was either all black or all white . I do n't have one good thing to say about this book . Hard to believe this author actually made money from this junk . ",0
"This was a good purchase fast shipper and am glad that I purchased but should not have to write so many words ",4
"I like Tom Clancy 's books but I thought the whole premise to this one was just silly . There were too many contradictions in the story for it or the characters to be believable . The hero is an ex special forces guy trying to help a new girlfriend face her past demons and bring evil men murderers to justice . Instead of heading straight for the cops he decides to joy ride in her old neighborhood where she is recognized and immediately becomes a target . I know when I am trying to protect someone I love from harm I always drive down to the projects . They are chased and shot at but manage to escape . But instead of immediately heading to safety at the police station still their destination they park in a secluded area and decide to wait there until their cop buddy comes on duty and then drive to see him . Well the bad guys never quit looking and sneak up on the parked couple . Mr Tough Guy gets caught by surprise and his girl dies . In the hospital he vows revenge because he is such a tough guy his nickname was even Snake he 's such a bad motherf . Sure . He 's such a badass that he brought his love into a dangerous neighborhood let them get ambushed and got her killed . Watch out everybody ! Here comes the Homer Simpson of the vengeance league . ",0
"Taking place during the later stages of vietnam this book has everything . Action love murder revenge personal agenda hardships success and failures from the every average day doctor to your admorals . An ex navy seal who loses his wife and girlfriends turns into a cold blooded killing machine that once stops wo n't quit until his mission is a success . It helps to define Mr Clark and sets up his character for later in the Jack Ryan books . You also have other losses from killings to perosnal agenda for wanting the war to end peaccfully to getting people out of enemy territory . So if you want action drama romance it is all here in this book and then some . DO n't pass up on this book you will reget it ! ",4
"Wonderful Clancy favorite ! Action backed book that can not be put down ! One of his best ! Nonstop action with many twists and turns ! Fantastic read ! ",4
"I 'd have to say that John Clark is perhaps the best character ever created . Tom Clancy 's character is going around Baltimore and DC taking out the worst of the criminal underworld leaves the police perplexed and in a quandry ? It is a sad tale of woe for Clark and it really helped to set the tone and aly the ground work for the rest of his booksCheck it out ",4
"I bought this for my husband who is a Tom Clancy fan . He drive a truck over the road and has time to listen to audio books while on long drives . He said it was definitely a classic Tom Clancy novel . ",4
"Clancy 's works are exemplars of this school of suspense novel which is largely driven by endless boring descriptions of infernal devices catalogs of weaponry and technical specifications of their capabilities rather than character dialog or even a credible plot . This particular book wastes nearly a thousand words describing how to make a pistol silencer which I suppose would be useful if I needed one or had the marine machine shop the hero uses to manufacture it . The plot is ridiculous and the hero is a dipstick who manages to get a woman killed because he is so stupid he drives with her into the ghetto to look for a dope dealer . It 's idiotic but that 's what Hollywood wants these days . . . ",1
"How can I review a book that I am trying to get to and start reading ? ! 4 more words required ! ",4
"I bought this because it was one of the Ryan series that I had missed reading . I especially like the character of John Clark so reading how he became a C.I.A . agent was a hoot . ",3
"This story is a favorite among many Tom Clancy fans . Chronilogically this is the first story to take place in the Jack Ryan Universe although it 's only a two page scene where an 18 year old Jack discusses going into the Marines that we see the hero of the Clancy novels.The rest of the novel centers around CIA operative instructor and all around badass John Clark . We get to see what brought Clark into the CIA in the first place as well as learn why is true past has been kept such a secret in the course of this story which takes place during the '70s.Much of this novel is a story about revenge . Picture a Navy Seal with a vendetta and some of the outcome is obvious . But what Clark is doing is highly illegal and police investigators are closing in . And Clark 's expertise and military experience get him called in as an advisor and later operative in a daring mission to rescue POW 's in Vietnam.Since he appears later you obviously know John Clark survived . But until you read this book you do n't know Clark . ",4
"I have to admit that when first reading WITHOUT REMORSE I was n't sure that I was going to like it . I thought there was way too much going on in the first chapter and I had a hard time following it . Eventually my perseverance paid off . I found the book to be a rollercoaster ride full of twists and turns as the plot unfolded . Thus I concluded that the first chapter was like the long chain beginning the climb on the rollercoaster very necessary to the overall ride.I do plan on continuing reading more of Tom Clancy 's work in addition to reading more Independent Authors . ",3
"This is a fantasy book for teens . Yep ! There really are evil monsters that follow the biddings of satanic witches . Our trucker hero Josh is caught up in a small isolated Virginia town 's nightmare when he accidentally runs over a newborn in a stroller.When he refuses to recant his story that an evil woman pushed the stroller purposefully into the truck 's path the bad guys have got to silence him.This was written in an average writing style with silly unbelievable characters . Gray I 'm sure will have lots of followersthose who like books about witches dragons zombies and anything else teenagerish . Please do n't waste your time with this ! ",1
"Halfway through reading Muriel Gray 's novel Furnace I began to think of the 1973 movie The Wicker Man . In that movie there 's a community based on pagan sacrfice and it 's the outsider who ends up as the victim and if you have n't seen The Wicker Man forget I said that . While the differences between the two abound Furnace and The Wicker Man share that strongest connecting tie the idea of human sacrifice bringing fortuity to the worshippers.Josh Spiller is a truck driver who just found out his girlfriend Elizabeth is pregnant . He 's overjoyed but she 's not keeping it . This sparks the argument that separates them for the rest of the book . Elizabeth storms out and Josh to deal with this new stress accepts a load of aluminum going to Alabama . The time away may calm them both down . On the way he detours through the small town of Furnace Virginia initially looking for something to eat . On a busy street he 's distracted and turns to look just in time to see a woman shoving a baby stroller into the street and under the wheels of Josh 's truck.At first he 's terrified because he 's been without sleep for longer than the law allows but later he realizes it was a terrible accident . The mother forgot to set the brake on the stroller and the wind carried the baby into the street . But what about the woman he saw pushing the stroller into his path Josh thinks ? The sheriff dismisses this as shock because the woman Josh saw is the town councillwoman a bibletoting Christian . Her fliers are all over town . Josh must have seen her picture and his tired mind played the incident in his head as seeing the woman Nelly McFarlane pushing the sevendayold Amy Nevin into the street.The whole thing was an accident and Josh is released.Outside Furnace he picks up a hitchhiker 21yearold Griffin who 's also leaving Furnace saying she was always an outsider there . And what IS going on in Furnace Josh wonders . For a small town with no visible means of support the houses sure are nice . The people there really live pretty high on the hog.The gist of Furnace is that in his insistance there was a woman behind the baby and his refusal to change his statement to the contrary he 's incurred the wrath of Furnace.. . . you must have pied them off bad Griffin tells him.Their punishment is meeted out in a seveninch strip of dried flesh from the dead baby Amy 's body . On this strip are strange markings along with a note Three Days Alive Permitted . In the alchemical rules of Furnace that means Josh has three days to not only figure out who slipped him the runethe strip of fleshbut also to slip it back to them willingly and unknowingly.As Griffin tells him It 's not going to be easy . You ca n't let the rune caster know what you 're doing . Do you understand ? Whoever cast them wo n't let you within a mile of them.Then what 's the point ? The point is it 's your only hope . Even if it 's a slim one.There 's cheesy drama galore in this book but it 's pretty fun too.And what happens if the three days pass and Josh is n't able to pass the runes back to the caster ? It 's a hot elemental.Talk sense.. . .Okay . If you want to use the language of Dark Age ignorance . It 's a fire demon.And if he happens to pass them to the wrong person ? It ' l l be as if they 'd been lost or destroyed and Josh would still face the evil of the demon.The thing that kept me reading was wondering how the hell Josh is going to not only figure out who sipped him the runes but how is he going to give them back willingly and unknowingly ? That 's a hell of a thing to have to do but Josh Spiller is a hell of an heroic character and he manages just fine . Gray who 's a Glasgow woman writes this Pittsburgh truck driver as if she 's been one herself for the past fifteen years.This was as I said a fun book to read . My dad 's a truck driver and it was interesting to see the inner workings of the profession . I 'd like to get him to read it and see what he thinks.I did have a few problems . Most of the chapters start with subplots for a few paragraphs or pages before returning to Josh 's story the one we 're interested in and some of themthe subplotson finishing the book seem really unnecessary . There 's one that talks about something waiting to be born and at first we think it 's Elizabeth 's unborn child but later learn differently and in retrospect it did n't need to be there.Also the ends there were two the climax of Josh 's story and a short wrapup in Furnace were predictable pages before they came . And the end of Josh in the book was n't what you 'd expect . Given that throughout most of the book all he wants is to get home to Elizabeth you expect him to in the end . He probably does but it 's not shown.Another complaint was that it took way too long for the action to start . We meet Josh on his way home from delivering a load . He stops at a truck stop he phones Elizabeth he goes home he sleeps he gets up he gives Elizabeth the gift he bought for her at the truck stop he finds out she 's pregnant they argue she leaves he leaves he drives he gets hungry he stops in Furnace . We 're on page 35 before he ever sees the FURNACE sign . And it 's another 10 pages before he runs over baby Amy . On page 83 Josh sees LEAVING FURNACE and still by this point nothing much has happened . In fact he does n't find the note THREE DAYS ALIVE PERMITTED until page 135 . That seemed like a whole lot of setup that could have been compressed to a whole lot less.I was hipped to the book when I asked on if anyone could suggest a really good horror novel . This one was named and our library happened to have it . They 're right it 's a pretty good book . Unfortunately it 's nothing spectacular . Or maybe I 'm just jaded and too hard to please . After some of the other horror novels I 've reviewed Furnace seems pretty tame . But maybe that 's why this one 's released by Doubleday instead of one of the small presses . The contrasts between them are very different levels of horror . Furnace is a mainstream horror novel all the way and any random reader can pick it up and enjoy themselves . But a true horror fan may be left wanting more . ",3
"To Lee from Denver Yes Murial Gray is a woman she is a Glaswegian who used to present The Clothes Show on British terrestrial TV but that really does n't matter I agree with you that she has an incredible talent for writing horror creating mindblowingly original concepts and conjuring up all manner of creepy and disturbing situations involving sensitively drawn characters with heartfelt emotional dilemmas . Just thought I 'd clear that up for you.And to another reviewer who said she ca n't believe a woman wrote this book why not ? Do men and women have such different styles ? Are we still living in the days where women have to change their names to things like George Elliot to be taken seriously ? Obviously if you 're expecting Anne Rice 's sensual style of writing you 'll be disappointed by this but that 's no reason to slate a book . Murial Gray is far closer to Stephen King but far FAR better in style and deserves credit for appealing to all sorts of people across the sexes . I do n't think women or men for that matter should be pigeonholed as writing for a singlesex audience . Check out Robin Hobb a wait for it female fantasy author who writes incredible stories that relate both the male and female viewpoints with exceptional clarity and understanding.And to everyone else this is a great book . Regardless of Murial Gray 's sex she is a force to be reckoned with in the horror genre putting a vital human element into her horror stories that many other authors fail to do . It works on a horror level but at the same time the characters are fully developed and thus it works on an emotional level too whether this is because she is a female author or merely because she is in tune with her own emotions and fear is a matter of conjecture . If you need more convincing buy this novel and if you like it take on the longer and more complex 'The Trickster ' another novel with Gray 's acute pinnacle style . Now I 'll get off my soapbox and retire ",4
"Muirel Gray 's Furnace grabbed my attention quickly and held it captive through the first quarter of the book . Unfortunately I found my attention waning during the second and third quarters as the story moved too slowly for my taste and introduced some subplots that were somewhat disjointed andor uninteresting . Gray did manage to recapture some of my attention and interest in the final quarter of the book but by this point I was as much interested in finishing it so I could move on to my next book as in finding out how the story ends . Furnace could easily have been an 8 or possibly a 9 with some necessary editing . ",3
"This book could be considered a sequel of sorts to Jacques Tourneur 's famous horror film Curse of the Demon which is based on M. R. James ' classic story Casting the Runes . The plot is pretty well identical to Tourneur 's creepy masterpiece only updated and relocated from England to the hills of West Virginia.Longdistance trucker Josh Spiller finds himself off the beaten track in an oddly affluent little mountain town called Furnace where a woman coldbloodedly pushes an infant in its stroller in front of his eighteenwheeler . The local constabulary are in no doubt it was an accident but they do n't believe his story about the woman pushing the baby Spiller 's description of her is that of their town benefactoress and councillor Nelly McFarlane.Stymied Spiller leaves town and picks up a teenaged girl hitchhiker named Griffin who is anxious to leave Furnace because she considers it a bad place though she wo n't say precisely why . Soon Spiller notices diabolical phenomena following him around sulfurous smells evil apparitions claw marks in his truck and the discovery of an unidentified parchment in his wallet is fingered by Griffin as the cause . Seems Furnace 's financial prosperity is attached to a little oldfashioned witchcraft and the runic parchment in Spiller 's possession is a supernatural tracking device for a demonic assassin due to dismember Spiller before daybreak that is unless he can figure out exactly who slipped it to him and can slip it back to them before the appointed hourThis novel suffers badly from excess padding and a plotpoint for plotpoint lift from Tourneur but it is quite wellwritten and enjoyable on its own merits all the same . Anyone who enjoys this book would be well advised to check out its inspirations and the same goes viceversa for fans of Tourneur 's movie and James ' original story . ",3
"I beg to differ with some of the reviewers who call Furnace a great read and compare author Muriel Gray with the likes of King and Koontz . Oh the book starts out with enough action to set the tone and keep the reader involved but unfortunately starts to lose steam near the halfway point.Trucker Josh Spiller finds himself trying to decide if saving his relationship with his nowpregnant girl friend is worth the effort . As he tries to sort out his thoughts while on the job he makes a wrong turn into the town of Furnace Virginia where his life becomes changed forever.There 's no denying that Josh is a solid enough character but I ca n't really say that any of the other characters will extend too far beyond your shortterm memory limits . The writing is uneven enough to make the plot jumpy and somewhat hard to stay with . And the hold that local witch Nelly McFarland has over the locals is just a little too much to believe.As the plot finally decelerates to it 's inevitable climax you wo n't be either surprised or overjoyed by the conclusion maybe just relieved that it 's over . But do n't take my word for it because a number of other reviewers obviously think differently . Just do n't say you have n't been warned ! ",1
"The only gripe I have with Furnace is Muriel Gray 's bad geography . She seems to not understand that West Virginia and Virginia are two different places . All that aside this is a book to pick you up out of your reading doldrumsengrossing witty but not particularly frightening . ",4
"Move over King Koontz and Saul ! Finally a female horror writer who 's got what it takes ! As an avid horror reader I picked up Furnace and although I was far from being bored with the plot thought I had the story all figured out about halfway through the book . WRONG ! This one will keep you guessing until the very last page . You 'll be amazed at all the unexpected twists and turns . What a fabulous read ! Muriel Grays is an asset to horror literature ! Highly recommended to all horror fans . If you have n't read her first novel The Trickster please do so as wellyou wo n't be disappointed . ",4
